:Ace: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Paul Hlavacek, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Four Planets variant: Under this variant Ace still follows his Game Setup text, so he will end up with three planets and 12 ships.
Other unique system setups: In a multiple-power game, if a player has Ace and another alien that also does something special with its planets or ships, Ace should always purge one planet and a fair share of ships for that planet. Thus Ace+Pygmy purges two ships, Ace+Worm should purge four, and Ace+Symbiote purges eight. In other words, when a player must perform two or more of these Game Setup texts the sequence should be Pygmy, Symbiote, Ace, Worm.
[q="Ace (Red)"]Wins with One Colony

Game Setup: Remove one of your planets from the game, sending your ships on it to the warp.

You have the power to Triumph. At the start of your turn, if you have any foreign colonies, use this power to win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

Other players may have an encounter at one of your foreign colonies whenever the destiny card drawn allows them to target either your home system or the system that hosts that foreign colony.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

Fearless freedom fighters for a forbidden force, the legendary Aces terrify lesser warriors. Judged not by their size, but by their peerless physical prowess, each athletic Ace was desperately hunted to presumed extinction. Now, using mystic mind tricks to disguise themselves, these majestic masters of the martial arts seek to fortify one rebel base, and then conquer the Cosmos.

Wild: After encounter cards are revealed, if you are opposed by all other players you may play this flare to win the encounter. Give this flare to the Ace after use (or discard it, if the Ace isn't playing).
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: As the defense, if you lose the encounter, instead of sending your ships to the warp you may relocate them to any one other planet in a different system, establishing a colony there. Afterwards, discard this flare.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:AI: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="AI (Red)"]Gets Smarter

You have the power to Think Ahead. At the start of every player's turn, add one token to this sheet.

As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to look at a number of hidden elements up to the number of tokens on this sheet. The hidden elements you can inspect are cards in players' hands, cards on the tops of decks or sets of essence cards (e.g., the top three cards from one deck, or three top cards from different decks), hidden alien powers, and facedown cards hidden by players (for example, in the Miser's hoard or any essence cache).

These tokens accumulate and are not "spent" when you use your power.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

After a modest beginning as a programmable calculator, the AI had a sudden growth spurt after it learned how to replicate itself. Soon, the AI dominated all inferior intelligences. Now bored, the AI is sending copies of itself out into the Cosmos hoping to find and envelop new types of intelligence.

Wild: As the defense, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may look at your opponent's card without showing it to others. Then, both main players return their encounter cards to their hands and select again (choosing the same cards or different ones).
(Defense Only) (Planning)

Super: When adding a token to your alien sheet, you may add two instead of one.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Alchemist: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by the fans, illustrated by Felicia Cano. All discard piles are potentially available for transmutation, as long as you have a card of the appropriate type in your hand to discard. Examples: You may discard a Negotiate to the regular discard pile and retrieve a Negotiate (Faulty Translator) from the reward deck discard pile (or vice versa). If there are flares in the unused flare deck discard pile because of something like Aristocrat, Wild Chrysalis, Host, Pentaform, or Alien Outpost, you may retrieve one of them after discarding a flare to the cosmic deck discard pile (this will gradually increase the number of flares in circulation). Alchemist is purposefully absolute in this regard; when playing some kind of homebrew variant that puts other types of cards in your hand such as hazards, tech, or space stations, you may similarly transmute those card types, discarding them to the appropriate discard piles based on the variant.
[q="Alchemist (Yellow)"]Converts Cards by Type

You have the power of Transmutation. Once per encounter, you may use this power to send one of your ships to the warp. Then, discard one card from your hand and take a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.) from any discard pile. You may transmute an attack card only if the two cards' values are within 4 of each other (such as an attack 08 and an attack 12).
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

In a dark age, the Alchemists spun others' trash into treasure – for a substantial fee. Few knew it was all a scam, a generational confidence game of black-market purchases and using one race's abandoned input as another's miraculous output. Then, in an even darker age, as their intergalactic fraud seemed on the verge of exposure, the Alchemists discovered that harvesting and manipulating their own species' cerebella could provide the "magic" to make transmutation a reality. Thus was their operation finally legitimized, at a terrible cost.

Wild: You may discard one non-encounter card from your hand and take a different card of the same type (artifact, reinforcement, flare, etc.) from any discard pile.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When transmuting an attack card, you may exchange it for another attack card of any value.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Alien: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Alien has 9 "trauma" essence cards. Rescue: If a captured ship is released by something like Ship Zap or Super Symbiote, discard the trauma card to the Alien's sheet.
[q="Alien (Red)"]Abducts Other Aliens

You have the power to Traumatize. At the start of another player's turn, you may use this power to capture one of that player's ships from any colony where he or she has at least two ships. Choose one trauma from your essence card cache and place it facedown next to this sheet with the captured ship on top. You may not hold more than one of each player's ships captive at a time.

When you are not the offense, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to release one or both of the main players' ships you have captured on previous turns. Released ships join the encounter, going to the hyperspace gate or the targeted planet as appropriate (this may exceed any gate limits), and the trauma card under each one is placed facedown, unseen, near the corresponding main player.

When a player with a trauma card reveals an encounter card, he or she must also reveal that trauma card and carry out its effect. Revealed trauma cards are returned to you.

If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all ships you have captured go to the warp and their trauma cards are returned to you.
(Not Offense) (Optional) (Start Turn) (Planning)

The Aliens are actually quite child-like in their boundless curiosity, and are unaware that their simple abduction games are not appreciated.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may ask one other player to give you five ships which you will hold as hostages, returning them at the end of your turn. Instead of giving you the ships, the player may offer you anything he or she could give you as part of a deal and/or agree to receive cards from your hand. If you accept the deal, all ships remain in place.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: You may capture a player's ship even if you already have one or more captives from that player. Place a trauma card under each ship you capture.
(Not Offense) (Start Turn)
[/q]
:Amoeba: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ rulings: Amoeba may ooze all of his ships into the hyperspace gate if he wants to; this is considered a single action, so Amoeba would not lose his power until just after the ships were placed in the gate. Wild Amoeba may be used by the defense to bring in more ships even if he has none on the planet to begin with.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Wild Amoeba did not limit the player to 4 ships added or removed.
Edited to eliminate the unnecessary and inconsistent "rule on a card" that has unintended consequences when the Amoeba player has some other way to gain a colony.
[q="Amoeba (Yellow)"]Unlimited Ship Movement

You have the power to Ooze. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, if you have at least one ship in the encounter, you may use this power to increase or decrease the number of ships you have in the encounter. You may remove some or all of your ships to your colonies, or you may add as many ships as you want (even exceeding the normal maximum of four) from any of your colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Spawned on a totally liquid world, Amoebas are highly conscious of vibrations. Quick to withdraw from danger, they are equally able to ooze menacingly into combat when confronted with the proper turbulences. Amoebas pity those who are less able to respond to circumstance and will be sensitive Cosmic masters.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may increase or decrease the number of your ships in the encounter by up to four. This may result in you having more than four ships in the hyperspace gate.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may use your power as an ally.
(Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Anarchist: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Anarchist has 8 "disruption" essence cards.
[q="Anarchist (Red)"]Disrupts Rules

You have the power of Chaos. As a main player, whenever you lose an encounter or fail to make a deal, use this power to disrupt a game rule by revealing one disruption from your essence card cache. At first you keep the card faceup on this sheet and only you may use the disrupted rule.

Once per encounter, you may allow another player to move one of your faceup disruptions from this sheet next to his or her alien sheet. Now both of you may take advantage of that disrupted rule. Afterwards, you immediately reveal another disruption from your essence card cache.

After any other player has used a disrupted rule, he or she immediately places that disruption in the center of the playing area and then everyone may use that disrupted rule. Disruptions are cumulative. When you have revealed all 8 disruptions, you win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

The Anarchists take umbrage with the formalities of interaction used over the eons, smothering their opponents with unorthodoxy at every juncture.

Wild: You may rebel in one of the following ways: Instead of accepting your destiny card, draw destiny again. Instead of sending your ships to the warp, return them to your colonies. Instead of seeing your winning offensive allies' ships land on a planet, send them all to the warp. Give this flare to the Anarchist after use (or discard it, if the Anarchist isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As an ally, you may use your power to reveal a disruption when your side loses the encounter or you are dismissed because both main players must attempt to deal.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Angler: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Cedric Chin (as Fish), illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Angler (Yellow)"]Fishes for Cards

You have the power to Fish. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to ask any player on the opposing side if he or she has a specific card, such as an attack 12, a regular negotiate card, or the Virus flare. If that player has the card, he or she must give it to you. Otherwise you must draw a card from the deck. If you draw the card you asked for from the deck, you may use this power a second time during this encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Developing on a monaquatic homeworld filled with untold prey species, the Anglers learned patience, stealth, and selectivity – disciplines that serve these passive predators well as they now take to the stars. Assessing the aliens they encounter and luring carefully selected victims to an early demise, the Anglers often reel in valuable spoils to satiate their growing needs.

Wild: You may name a specific card (e.g., attack 12, regular negotiate, or Virus flare). If any player has that card and chooses to give it to you, give him or her this flare. Otherwise, keep this flare and take one card at random from the hand of any player.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may use your power as an ally.
(Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Animal: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Edited to make the incorrect prerequisite icon consistent with other similar powers.
[q="Animal (Yellow)"]Throws a Hearty Party

You have the power to Party. When you are not a main player, each time a main player fails to invite you to ally, use this power to force that player to lose a ship of his or her choice to the warp.

As a main player or ally, if your side wins the encounter, use this power to throw a celebration party. Each player on the winning side, including you, may draw one card from the deck.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Alliance) (Resolution)

A nomadic, carefree race, the Animals make it a point to never miss a rockin' party anywhere in the Cosmos – even if they have to throw it themselves while the planet's owners are away. More than one race of would-be Cosmic conquerors has returned from battle only to find their homeworld's ecology wrecked and a few hungover Animals dressed in stained togas clambering into their ships with a bleary, "Hey man, that's what you get for bogarting the planet."

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may throw such a wild party that it causes a cosmic quake. Give this flare to the Animal after use (or discard it, if the Animal isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: When you are not invited to ally by a main player, you may force that player to lose two ships instead of one.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Anti-Matter: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes,. FAQ ruling: When Wild or Super Anti-Matter prevents another flare, it returns to the player's hand and cannot be played again that encounter as that particular Wild or Super effect. However, it does not count against the player's limit of one flare per encounter, and (in theory) it could be played again in the same encounter for its other effect (the Wild if the Super had been prevented, and vice versa). See flares for more discussion on this. Tip: Using a Cosmic Zap against yourself essentially converts this power from mandatory to optional, almost guaranteeing you a win in an attack-vs.-attack encounter. Consider negotiating for Cosmic Zaps when you make deals, and don't worry too much if the other players know you have one; the tension this generates can work to your advantage. With experienced players, keeping exactly two ships on an unrevealed tech might also make them wonder if you're hiding a Cosmic Field Generator.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Super Anti-Matter prevented only Super flares.
Edited to avoid implying that card values are modified.
[q="Anti-Matter (Yellow)"]Lower Total Wins

You have the power of Negation. As a main player, after both you and your opponent reveal attack cards, use this power to make the lower total win. Furthermore, when this power is used, your ships as well as any offensive and defensive allies' ships are subtracted from the appropriate side's total instead of adding. Your opponent's total is otherwise figured normally, however.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Spewed forth from a white hole, the worlds of Anti-Matter careen through space negating whatever they encounter. Opposed to the very existence of gross mass, the Anti-Matter is dedicated to reducing all opposition to less than nothing.

Wild: As a main player or ally, when another player tries to use a wild flare, you may prevent him or her from doing so. Use this against only one flare per encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Any Phase)

Super: When another player tries to use a super or wild flare, you may prevent him or her from doing so. Use this against only one flare per encounter.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Arcade: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Captured? "Pwning" is not defined as capturing, but probably should have been. If Arcade should pwn a hired ship from Merchant, a horde token from Horde, or a ship introduced by Wild Horde, you should probably treat that the same way as capturing and discard the card, token, or ship.
[q="Arcade (Yellow)"]Wins By Dominating Encounters

You have the power to Pwn. As a main player or ally, after both main players reveal attack cards and your side wins by 10 or more, use this power to pwn one ship from the opposing main player.

As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an attack card and the other main player reveals a negotiate card, use this power to pwn one ship from the opposing main player.

When you pwn a ship, the opposing main player gives you one ship of his or her choice from any of his or her colonies. That ship is placed on this sheet. If there are three ships of the same color or five total ships on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

ZOMG t3h Arc8d r t3h r0xx0rz!!!! +0+411y pwnt t3h n00bs! Lawl j00 r t3h sux0rz!!

Wild: As a main player or ally, if your side wins an encounter by 10 or more, you may force each player on the losing side to send one additional ship from any of his or her colonies to the warp.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: When using your power, you may choose to pwn a ship belonging to an opposing ally instead of the opposing main player.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Architect: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Normal player-color planets: Architect can merge only the normal planets that actually match the colors of players in the game. Extra planets used by effects such as Explorer, Genesis Bomb, Moocher, and Pygmy are off limits. Power loss: While the Architect has lost his power, he does not get to keep doubling his totals. "Towers are permanent" means only that the towers are not physically disassembled.
[q="Architect (Red)"]Stacks Planets

You have the power to Build Towers. When you win as a main player, at the end of the encounter use this power to create or expand a tower in your opponent's system. If you do not already have a tower in that system, choose two of that system's planets (if the targeted planet is in that system, it must be one of your choices). Merge those two planets together, placing all ships from both on the top of the two-level tower. If you already have a tower in the opponent's system, then instead select another planet in that system and merge it into the tower as a new level, placing its ships on top.

Only normal player-color planets can be merged. Do not create a merged planet using planets with unused player colors or that would exceed any limits, such as more than one entanglement token, etc.

As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to double your total if you have a tower of two or more levels in the opponent's system, a tower of three or more levels in a system adjacent to the opponent's system, or a tower of four or more levels in any system.

Each tower counts as a single planet. Towers are permanent, even if you lose the use of them. If any player cannot gain enough foreign colonies to win the game due to insufficient foreign planets, you win the game.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal) (Resolution)

Skilled builders, the Architects now seek to drag the works of others into their constructions.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may discard one attack card from your hand and then add 1 for each card below it in its discard pile to your total. Give this flare to the Architect after use (or discard it, if the Architect isn't playing).
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may create or expand a tower in your own system instead of your opponent's system.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Aristocrat: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by the fans, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Aristocrat did not specify a time limit for choosing your starting hand, and did not protect other players' Super flares from being removed from the game. Eon's Wild Aristocrat did not require any shuffling. Eon's Super Aristocrat was completely different: it allowed the player to choose any seven cards from the deck when he needed to draw a new hand.
[q="Aristocrat (Red)"]Picks Hand and Draws Extra Flares

Game Setup: After flares are added to the deck but before hands are dealt, you have one minute to look through the deck. Take any eight cards (except the Aristocrat flare) to form your starting hand, and then re-shuffle the deck.

You have the power of Privilege. As a main player, any time before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to draw a flare from the unused flare deck and add it to your hand. Then, if you have two or more flares in your hand that do not match any players' alien powers, you must choose one of those unmatched flares and remove it from the game. The flares you remove from the game cannot be drawn again.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Start Turn) (Regroup) (Destiny) (Launch) (Alliance) (Planning)

Beginning life with every advantage, the Aristocrats expect deference and respect from others. Drawing on a storehouse of great wealth from their feudal planet-estates, they now turn their majestic gaze upon the squabbling villeins of space.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may take one minute to look through the deck, choose one card, and add it to your hand. Then, shuffle the discard pile together with the deck to form a new deck. Give this flare to the Aristocrat after use (or discard it, if the Aristocrat isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: When using your power, instead of drawing one flare you may discard this flare either to draw three, or to take one minute to look through the unused flare deck and choose any one flare, shuffling the flare deck afterwards.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Assistant: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Assistant has 6 "help" essence cards. Zapped help: If you are zapped when a player returns a help card to you, no help is provided and no rewards are drawn, but the help card is still discarded to your sheet. (You are not using your power to allow the card to be returned; you are using it to provide the help after the card is returned.)
[q="Assistant (Yellow)"]Makes Players Better

You have the power to Be Helpful. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, use this power if there are any other player(s) on your side of the encounter. Give one help card from your essence card cache to one of those players and then gain one reward. A player who has been given a help card can keep it faceup or facedown and look at it.

Other players may give their help cards back to you per the timing on the help card. When they do, use this power to provide the help as instructed; then either gain one reward or, if you can immediately use the help card for yourself, you may do so before placing the card faceup in the unavailable pile.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Mastering the art of obscurity, the Assistants seem to be omnipresent, relentlessly. Their inferior status is a veil from which they now quietly acquire a vast array of unnoticed resources.

Wild: You may recolonize one of your home planets using one or more of your ships in the warp. Give this flare to the Assistant after use (or discard it, if the Assistant isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When a help card is returned to you, you may immediately discard a card from your essence card cache and replace it with the returned card.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Bandit: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Edited for terminology (there is no such thing as an "encounter deck").
[q="Bandit (Red)"]"Takes a Spin" Each Turn

You have the power to Take a Spin. At the start of each player's turn, including your own, use this power to reveal the top three cards of the deck. If all three revealed cards have different card types (negotiate, attack, reinforcement, etc.), discard a card of your choice from your hand. If two of the revealed cards have the same card type, you may add any one of the revealed cards to your hand. If all three revealed cards have the same card type, you may add any or all of the revealed cards to your hand, and all other players must discard all cards of that card type from their hands. After you take a spin, discard any revealed cards that are not added to your hand.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

Creatures of risk, the one-armed Bandits roam the Cosmos looking for opportunities. However, where other aliens would shy away from near-impossible odds, the Bandits thrive on them. They can often be heard spouting their philosophy – "Come on, take a chance. What do you have to lose?"

Wild: At the start of any player's turn, you may reveal and discard the top card of the deck. If it is a negotiate card, you immediately receive four rewards. Otherwise, nothing happens.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)

Super: After spinning, you may discard one revealed card and reveal the top card of the deck to replace it before resolving your spin.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Barbarian: Alien power, base set, designed by Alan Emrich, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Noteworthy interaction: Barbarian devastates Genius, essentially making its power useless.
Retooled gameplay: Emrich's version was optional and worked as the offense or an offensive ally, but allowed only one card to be kept.
Edited to clarify the timing of Wild Barbarian's decision.
[q="Barbarian (Green)"]Destroys Opponent's Hand

You have the power to Loot and Pillage. As the offense, after you win an encounter but before compensation (if any) is collected, use this power to loot your opponent's cards. Take your opponent's hand and look at it. For each ship you have in the encounter, you may choose one card from your opponent's hand and add it to your own. Afterwards, discard the remainder of your opponent's hand.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

A savage race from a harsh solar system, the Barbarians roared out into the Cosmos as soon as they discovered space flight. They have crushed many civilizations before them, carelessly tossing aside priceless cultural treasures in their endless quest for glory, battle, and the lamentations of their enemies.

Wild: When gaining compensation or rewards, you may look at all of the cards you receive and then discard any of them that you do not want, without replacing them.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power as an offensive ally if your side wins, looting the opposing main player's cards.
(Offensive Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Bleeding Heart: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Infinite loop: When Bleeding Heart declares peace and Warhawk is a main player, card values will infinitely oscillate between negotiate and attack 00. (A similar issue occurs with The Cult.) While one might think the Timing Conflicts rule would prevent these loops, it actually does not since Warhawk and the other power are never trying to have their effect at exactly the same time.
[q="Bleeding Heart (Green)"]Low Attacks Become Negotiates

You have the power of Rapport. On any encounter, before allies are invited, you may use this power to say "Let there be peace!" If you do, all attack cards with a value of 10 or lower become negotiate cards when revealed and all compensation is doubled.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

The Bleeding Hearts are an irresistibly beautiful species. All life and non-life forms they have encountered are awed and powerless in the presence of their beauty and the haunting aura of peace they release whenever aliens encounter each other. Their goal is to re-balance encounters between aliens and to create more peaceful Cosmic Universes where consciousness of every kind dedicates itself to appreciating the beauty of peaceful encounters.

Wild: Before allies are invited, you may declare "Peace Out!" and all attack cards with a value of 10 or higher become negotiate cards when revealed.
(As Any Player) (Alliance)

Super: When you fail to make a deal, your opponent's ship loss is doubled.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Booster: Alien power, Escape Velocity promo, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Promotional Alien: In a manner reminiscent of the initial version of Demon, this "Print on Demand" alien/flare set was given to participants in the Cosmic Encounter Galactic Championship held at Escape Velocity 2019 in Washington, DC. Production issues: Because of the limitations of the PoD process and/or economic considerations, there are noticeable differences in feel, shape, and size compared to normal powers and flares. The alien sheet is too long and too wide, has the wrong aspect ratio and artwork zoom, and bleeds off the edge more than it should. The flare appears to be the proper size, but its corners are rounded differently (much closer to square) and the two copies seen by the Cosmodex's semi-trained human minion both had noticeably miscut borders on their backs, making them stand out rather than blend in with other cosmic-back cards. Booster's physical assets therefore are not conducive to mixing in with "real" game components.
Edited to fix the launch bug and mandatory flare bug, to address the case where Booster should discard two cards but has only one, for clarity, and for capitalization and wording conventions.
[q="Booster (Green)"]Sheds Cards When Launching

You have the power of Escape Velocity. As the offense or an ally, use this power when you send ships into the encounter. If you send one or two ships, discard the same number of cards from your hand (or one if you have only one). If you send three or more ships, draw one card from the deck to add to your hand, then discard one card.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Launch) (Alliance)

Incredibly fast-moving Boosters are launched into low orbit upon birth. Dead weight is shed immediately, and only the most useful resources or tantalizing swag gets harnessed for the good of all Boosters. Now, the Boosters have perfected the leap from imagination to reality, leaving their most challenging competitors staggering around in their Cosmic dust.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may force an ally (other than yourself) to discard a card from his or her hand at random for each ship he or she has in the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Alliance)

Super: As an ally, when you send three or more ships into the encounter, you may draw that number of cards from the deck. Afterwards, you may discard up to the same number.
(Ally Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Bride: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Lila Boutin, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Captured? Bride receiving a ship as a wedding ring is not defined as capturing. However, this ring probably should be a "real" ship. If the Bride receives a hired ship from Merchant, a horde token from Horde, or a ship introduced by Wild Horde, you should probably treat that the same way as capturing and discard the card, token, or ship. And the groom would still be required to place a "real" ring on the Bride's sheet.
[q="Bride (Yellow)"]Marries Players

You have the power to Marry. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to "marry" your opponent. That player must choose one of his or her ships and place it on this sheet. You may be married to only one player at a time.

You and your "spouse" may ally with each other without being invited and may show each other any cards in your hands at any time. Once per encounter, you may use this power to allow a trade of one card each from your hand and your spouse's hand.

You may "divorce" your spouse at any time by turning that player's ship on your sheet upside-down and taking half of the cards in his or her hand at random (rounded down) as "alimony." You may not remarry a player you previously divorced. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, you must divorce your current spouse without receiving alimony.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Bride has left a trail of broken circulatory pumps and legal hijinks across the Cosmos, and yet her allure is impossible to resist. The Bride, however, eschews the social pressure of the present and rejects wallowing in the past as she drifts through space longing for a fantasy future with her true soulmate, be it a low-life Hate or a noble Ethic.

Wild: As the defense, after the offense launches ships, you may run away from the encounter. The offense sends his or her ships from the gate to any one of his or her home planets, or any one unoccupied foreign planet, then ends his or her turn.
(Defense Only) (Launch)

Super: You may remarry an opponent that you previously divorced. Turn that player's ship on your sheet faceup. Do not receive alimony from that opponent again.
(Main Player Only) (Destiny) (Launch)
[/q]

:Brute: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Andrew Olson. Design note: Based on a tweet from Mr. Olson, it appears that Brute was originally called "Crusher" when it was sent to him for artwork.
Edited to clarify that Super Brute forces each player to send one of his own ships to the warp.
[q="Brute (Yellow)"]Threatens Opponent's Ships

You have the power to Threaten. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to threaten one player on the opposing side. That player must either allow you to look at his or her hand of cards and take one card of your choice, or remove all of his or her ships from the encounter. Removed ships return to any of that player's colonies.

If all of a main player's ships are removed, he or she continues the encounter with zero ships. If all of an ally's ships are removed, he or she is no longer an ally.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

What the Brutes lack in subtlety, they make up for in simplicity. They tend to be an aggressive race, with blunt, thuggish tactics where they can use their strength and massive frames to intimidate any opposition in their way.

Wild: As a main player or ally, before compensation or defender rewards are collected, you may limit all players' compensation and rewards to one.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: As the offense, after alliances are formed, you may force the defense and each of his or her allies to send one of their own ships from the encounter to the warp.
(Offense Only) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Bully: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Wild Bully was usable even when the player was not involved in the encounter.
Edited to avoid suggesting that Bully increases the number of ships going to the warp when something like Lunatic, Spiff, or Sting is in play; to fix the coexistence bug; and to prevent Wild Bully's target from choosing ships that he is going to lose anyway (cf. Gambler).
[q="Bully (Yellow)"]Selects Losing Ships

You have the power to Intimidate. As a main player, after winning an encounter in which both players revealed attack cards, you may use this power to choose which ships your opponent must lose. Your opponent still loses the same number of ships he or she had in the encounter, but you take them from anywhere. If you are the defense, any of your opponent's ships that you leave in the hyperspace gate return to his or her other colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Habitually cruel to those who show signs of weakness, the Bully exploits any opportunity to run roughshod over its opponents. The false courage that is the hallmark of the Bully strikes terror into the less aggressive races of the Universe, and many flee rather than risk a confrontation. If none stand in its way, the Bully seeks to trample its way to Cosmic dominance.

Wild: As a main player, when your opponent reveals a negotiate card, you may use this flare. That player must either immediately give you a colony on a planet of your choice where he or she has a ship or else lose two ships of his or her choice to the warp. These lost ships may not be involved in the encounter. Cards changed to negotiate cards (such as by Emotion Control) still trigger this effect.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may use your power on opposing allies.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Bulwark: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered questions: What happens in situations covered by the third paragraph if it is not possible for the saved ships to remain in place? What happens in situations where the number of ships to be lost is not known in advance (e.g., Wrack)? What if the player wants to use a voluntary ship-loss effect such as Wild Kamikaze? Does the Super flare really only work for discards of exactly one card? The latter half of the sentence seems to think not.
[q="Bulwark (Green)"]Reduces Ships Lost to One

You have the power of Resilience. As the offense or an ally, whenever you would lose ships to the warp that are involved in an encounter, use this power to send only one of the involved ships to the warp. The other ships involved in the encounter are returned to any of your colonies.

As the defense, whenever you would lose ships to the warp that are involved in an encounter, use this power to send only one of the involved ships to the warp. The other ships involved in the encounter remain on the colony.

Whenever you would lose ships to the warp as a result of any other game effect, use this power to reduce the number of ships lost to one.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The toughness of the Bulwarks is legendary. They think nothing of facing overwhelming odds or throwing themselves into the thick of battle, knowing they have the ability to endure nearly any hardship. The Bulwarks can also be as thick-headed as they are thick-skinned.

Wild: As a main player, when you would send more than one ship to the warp, you may reduce the number of ships sent to one. Ships not sent to the warp return to your other colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: When you would discard a card at random or another player would collect compensation from you, you may choose which cards to discard or give that player as compensation.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Butler: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Gate aiming: Butler is indeed allowed to position the gate where the offense already has a colony, as long as this creates a legal encounter in accordance with the destiny draw (Encounter magazine v1n5p8). Successful: The successful encounter decreed to apply to the original offense by the Wild Butler revision is simply that: a success. The delegated player's win or deal is not considered a win or deal for the original player, but the original player is "successful" for the purpose of continuing his turn.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Butler collected tips in Lucre rather than cards, and when passing out players' cards was able to look at any of them that were purchased with Lucre. Eon's Wild Butler was completely different: it had an effect similar to Classic Wild Filch that allowed secretly throwing other players' ships into the warp.
Edited to make the base power work correctly when the offense draws his own color, to prevent Wild Butler from allowing the player to ally against himself if he is the defense, to eliminate confusion from the incorrect statement about play resuming from where it left off, and to clarify that the surrogate offense's outcome affects whether the original offense may continue his turn.
[q="Butler (Yellow)"]Gets Cards for Chores

You have the power to Serve. You flip the destiny card, aim the hyperspace gate, launch ships, and perform all other manually demeaning chores for the offense after he or she signals the start of his or her encounter. Unless the offense gives you a tip of one card at random from his or her hand, you may use this power to perform your choice of either of the following: aim the hyperspace gate at any planet in the targeted system where a legal encounter can be had or launch the offense's ships from any of his or her colonies (but only as many ships as the offense specifies).

If the offense does tip you, you must obey his or her wishes with regard to your chores for the rest of the encounter. You must perform certain functions without reward, such as dealing out cards that a player is entitled to. You must be courteous, and a tip of one card is all that you may collect per encounter.
(Not Offense) (Optional) (Launch)

"To serve is to live." The motto of the house of Butt guides its family as they build for their true inner hope: to turn the Cosmic tables and rule forever.

Wild: As the offense, at the start of your regroup phase, you may choose another player to be the offense for this encounter by saying "After you, I insist." The encounter is then carried out as usual, except that player must invite you to ally with him or her if possible. If that player wins or deals, it counts as a success for you.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)

Super: You may demand a tip of two cards instead of one.
(Not Offense) (Launch)
[/q]
:Calculator: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Tip: If you can play a negative attack card against Anti-Matter or an upset Loser, unless your opponent also has one of the two remaining negative attacks then equalizing will increase the value of his card and your chances of winning.
[q="Calculator (Yellow)"]Reduces Higher Attack Card

You have the power to Equalize. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to declare an "equalize." If you do so and both cards are revealed to be different attack cards, the value of the higher card is reduced by the value of the lower card. Thus if an attack 15 and an attack 08 are played, the 15 has its value reduced to 7, but the 08 keeps its value 8. The encounter is then concluded normally.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Defenseless on a jungle world, the order of Calculators grew adroit at ensnaring their powerful but bungling competitors. Now adept at turning strength back against itself, they study the prospects of galactic empire, trusting that other grosser beings will not also grow calculating.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may call "odd" or "even." When the cards are revealed, if both are attacks and their total is odd or even as you predicted, your opponent's card value is reduced by the value of your card. If you were wrong, your card is reduced by the value of your opponent's.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may use your power as an ally.
(Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Cavalry: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unusual encounter cards: Cavalry's power may be used only on attack and negotiate cards; thus, unlike Deuce, Cavalry cannot choose a Morph or a Retreat as a second card. (Neither of these aliens may use an intimidate card for their power, since it is not an encounter card at the time it would have to be played.) A variable attack card may of course be used, and it will modify itself as usual upon being revealed if a hazard warning is in effect. Name collision: Cavalry and Reserve both have "the power to Reinforce."
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Cavalry said "anything that affects the main player's card, such as Chronos, has the same effect on yours." The new version rules that the opposite way, wisely avoiding all kinds of existing and future interaction problems. (Chronos is also nicely revised to take care of this situation; Cavalry would return his card to his hand and is free to play it again if he likes, which makes Cav a bit stronger in this specific case than it was under Mayfair.) Also, FFG wisely changed Mayfair's "your card has no effect" to "this [meaning Cavalry's attack card] has no effect," thus fixing Mayfair's issue where the main player revealing a Compromise technically made Cavalry's Compromise useless. Mayfair's Wild Cavalry was completely different: it essentially gave Chosen's power to all allies in the encounter. Mayfair's Super Cavalry was considerably weaker, allowing an ally to reinforce Cavalry without requiring it. FFG's version essentially works both ways, since you can always say to your chosen ally "don't you wish you could use my power to help us?" and if he says yes, then play your flare.
Edited to clarify that the ally affected by Super Cavalry must still adhere to the base power's timing.
[q="Cavalry (Green)"]Plays Encounter Card as Ally

You have the power to Reinforce. As an ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to play an attack or negotiate card facedown from your hand off to one side. This second card is not considered your side's encounter card and isn't affected by game effects that target your side's encounter card, such as those of the Oracle or Sorcerer. Reveal your card when encounter cards are revealed. If you reveal your card to be an attack, add it to your side's total. This has no effect if your side's encounter card is a negotiate. If you reveal a negotiate and your side loses the encounter, you receive compensation after your side's main player has received compensation, if applicable. In any case, your card is discarded after use.
(Ally Only) (Optional) (Planning)

This race of interstellar policemen has gained quite a reputation for keeping peace on the fringes of space. Many diverse aliens have called upon the Cavalry to help suppress outpost revolutions. Now the Cavalry hope to rule the Cosmos by becoming indispensable.

Wild: As a main player, you may play this flare when your opponent needs a new hand. Cards are drawn one at a time until he or she has the cards needed for the encounter (usually one encounter card). Your opponent draws the balance of the new hand at the end of the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may choose one player allied with you. After cards are selected, that player must play an encounter card to reinforce you, if able, as though he or she had your alien power.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Changeling: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Swapping powers: If an alien power specifies that it cannot be stolen, then it also cannot be traded, loaned, etc.; this and other related leaks have been patched on the relevant aliens (Horde, Pygmy, and Symbiote) by adding that they cannot be separated from their player color. The reference to the powers' facets going along with those powers should be considered a general rule (see facets of powers for more information).
Retooled gameplay: Prior versions of Changeling forced power swapping without allowing a card draw instead. This is a welcome change to many players who might have enjoyed Changeling as a concept but grew weary of the effect in actual practice. The revised version is less "busy" and more strategic. Eon's Wild Changeling was worded in such a way that you might randomly get your flare back; FFG's rewording nicely prevents this.
Edited to correctly refer to Warrior's tokens rather than the "points" he had in previous editions.
[q="Changeling (Green)"]Swaps Powers with Opponent

You have the power to Change Form. As a main player, after the defense is determined, use this power. Either draw a card from the deck and add it to your hand or swap alien powers with your opponent. This power may be used only once per encounter. When swapping alien powers, you get all facets of that power – e.g., the Miser's hoard, the Warrior's tokens, The Claw's claw, etc.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Destiny)

The childlike Changelings love to play, and gleefully anticipate new experiences. Recently they have developed the unsettling ability to shed their psyches in exchange for those of others. Their standard greeting of "I just don't seem to be myself today" provokes panic in many a passing acquaintance as the Changelings leapfrog about the Cosmos.

Wild: At any time, you may draw a card at random from the hand of the player to your left. Afterwards, give this flare to that player. Use this flare only once per encounter.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When you use your power, you may swap powers with any player in the game.
(Main Player Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Chosen: Alien power, base set, designed by Mayfair Games, revised by Jack Reda and Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: When using Super Chosen, the player may look at the cards drawn for divine intervention before deciding whether to play the Super flare. Zap timing: A player who wishes to zap Chosen must do so before cards are drawn (see ________).
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Chosen was considerably weaker, drawing one (and only one) encounter card to replace (not add to) the played encounter card. Mayfair's Wild Chosen was completely different: it allowed the player to add or subtract 10 after cards were revealed. Mayfair's Super Chosen allowed only edicts (artifacts) and flares to be kept while drawing for divine intervention.
[q="Chosen (Green)"]Takes New Encounter Card

You have the power of Divine Intervention. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to pray for divine intervention once per encounter. To do so, draw three cards from the deck. If none are encounter cards, discard them, and there is no further effect. If you draw any encounter cards, you may choose one of the drawn encounter cards to replace your revealed encounter card (which is then discarded). If you have revealed an attack card and choose another attack card for divine intervention, the new card may either replace or add its value to the value of your revealed attack card, your choice. All other cards drawn for divine intervention are then discarded, and the encounter is resolved with the new card or card value.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

A deeply spiritual and philosophical race, the Chosen have become attuned to a higher force in the Cosmos that they call upon in times of need.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may draw one card from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may keep any non-encounter cards drawn from the deck while drawing for divine intervention.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Chronos: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Tip: Even when an encounter goes your way, sometimes you may want to use your power just to get back cards you played, such as Finder, Space Junk, Wild Sorcerer, and Zaps. Of course you have to weigh the value of the recovered card(s) against the likelihood that the replay of the encounter will also be favorable.
Retooled gameplay: FFG wisely added the statement about taking back into hand all other cards played during the initial run of the encounter, which clarifies what happens with kickers. Eon's Wild Chronos was completely different: it simply caused a new destiny to be drawn (this was slightly retooled to become FFG's Wild Dictator). Eon's Super Chronos was completely different: it allowed a player one last-ditch encounter to try to win the game instead of another player who had just won.
Edited to eliminate the implication that Super Chronos forces Chronos to change his encounter card.
[q="Chronos (Yellow)"]Can Replay Encounter

You have the power of Time Travel. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to call out "time travel." You then return your revealed encounter card to your hand while your opponent sets his or her revealed encounter card aside. If your opponent has no more encounter cards in hand and shows you so, he or she instead returns the revealed encounter card to his or her hand. All other cards played since the start of the planning phase return to their owners' hands. The encounter is then replayed from the start of the planning phase. You both can use any cards in your hands, and this time the outcome is final. When the encounter is over, your opponent takes back the card that was set aside.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Unique among life forms, the Chronos has forever been able to pierce the veil of time and control its own past. Now, the elite of the race grows tired of a world where minor rivalries lead to constant paradoxes and time-quakes and has set out to redesign the Universe. That this involves altering reality comes as past history to the Chronos.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may look through the discard pile, choose one card, and add it to your hand. Then, shuffle the discard pile together with the deck to form a new deck. Give this flare to the Chronos after use (or discard it, if the Chronos isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: When you use your power, you may force your opponent to play the same encounter card a second time. You may change or replay your encounter card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Chrysalis: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Noteworthy interaction: It's interesting that after you metamorphose Chrysalis into another alien, you then are able to use its flare (in Wild mode) to continue tweaking which alien you are.
Edited to avoid the appearance of optionality, for wording consistency, to clarify that the nine unused flares are not sent to the discard pile, to resolve Wild Chrysalis' "transform" ambiguity, and to properly sequence its redraw before the go/no-go decision rather than after.
[q="Chrysalis (Red)"]Becomes Another Alien

Game Setup: Place eight tokens on this sheet (six if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power to Change. At the start of every encounter, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. If there are no tokens left on this sheet, look at the top 10 flares of the unused flare deck. Choose one of these 10 flares corresponding to an alien that does not have Game Setup text and is allowed in the current game. You become that alien for the rest of the game. Add its flare card to your hand and take its alien sheet. Then, remove the other nine flare cards from the game and discard this sheet.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

The Chrysalis know that the Time of Change is coming. Only then will they attain their true potential and become what they were always meant to be. Only then will the Cosmos fall before them.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may draw the top card of the unused flare deck and transform into that alien, zapping your other power(s), until the end of this encounter. If the alien has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, draw again. You may choose not to transform after you see what card you've drawn.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Alliance)

Super: When you use your power, you may discard two tokens from your sheet instead of one.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Citadel: Alien power, base set, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Planetary relocation: Whenever a planet is moved, any citadel cards placed next to that planet go with it.
Outcome leak: Whether or not to discard activated citadel cards is defined for wins and losses, but is left undefined for deals, failed deals, and canceled encounters.
Tip: Normally you build positive citadels on your own planets and negative ones on other players' planets, of course, but medium to high attack cards placed in Anti-Matter's or Loser's system can help you and your allies win encounters there (even if Loser doesn't call an upset).
House rule: According to the FAQ, if the Citadel alien sheet leaves the game, citadel cards remain where they are, "stuck" for the rest of the game. The Cosmodex prefers to discard them, especially since such a clarification is already needed for planetary destruction.
Edited to clarify that placing a citadel card is limited to once per encounter rather than once per turn, to plug the undefined-outcomes leak, and to give the power a cleaner exit condition (even though this contradicts the FAQ).
[q="Citadel (Red)"]Builds Citadels on Planets

You have the power of Fortification. During each player's encounter, after destiny is drawn, you may play an attack card from your hand faceup next to any planet in any system as a citadel.

If a planet with one or more citadels is targeted, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to activate all citadels on the planet. If you do, add their combined value to the defense's total for the encounter. If you activate your citadels on a planet and the defense loses the encounter, discard the citadels. Otherwise, they stay in place.

Discard citadels if their planet is destroyed or this sheet leaves the game.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Planning)

Brilliant architects who obsessively build vast fortresses as they travel throughout the Cosmos, the Citadels are often welcomed with open arms by the other races, who are delighted to benefit from the Universe's best defenses. Of course, what the Citadels don't tell them is that these fortifications only work when the Citadels want them to do so.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add 5 to the defense's total.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: Your citadels may either add to or subtract from the defense's total when you activate them. Citadels are still discarded if the defense loses, even when they are used to subtract.
(As Any Player) (Planning)
[/q]
:Claw, The: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by James Hata, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Power loss: While The Claw has lost the use of his power (because of insufficient home colonies, being zapped, Plant, Wild Philanthropist, whatever), his stolen planets do not count as foreign colonies.
Negotiate leak: The player's very first claw card cannot be a negotiate, but there is no such restriction in the two passages that allow claw cards to be replaced. Thus, as written, The Claw player could simply swap in a negotiate card during the first regroup phase of the game if he wanted to.
Refresh leak: The only way to get a new claw card onto the sheet is when the current claw card has been played or swapped out. This means if anything happens to remove the claw card from the sheet outside the normal use of the power, then The Claw is useless for the rest of the game. A single cosmic quake (according to Kevin Wilson's interpretation) would do this; however, the Cosmodex strongly recommends playing the Cosmic Quake rule as printed and reshuffling only players' hands. Should there arise other ways of removing the card from the sheet, then the Cosmodex may revise this power to allow the sheet to be filled whenever it is empty, has been done for Cyborg.
House rule: As written, The Claw applies only when cards are played, not revealed. This of course is problematic with encounter cards, since The Claw cannot know when a matching facedown encounter card has been played (and reveal time is too late). The Cosmodex believes the power should also work when cards are revealed, which may possibly introduce a few unintended interactions.
Edited to fix the negotiate card leak and for clarity.
[q="The Claw (Red)"]Steals Planets

Game Setup: Choose one card from your starting hand to be your "claw" and place it facedown on this sheet; then draw a card from the deck.

You have the power of The Claw. Your claw is not part of your hand. Other players may not look at or draw it. At the start of any regroup phase, you may swap a card from your hand with your claw.

Once per encounter, when another player plays or reveals a copy of the card you have as your claw, if it is not a negotiate card, use this power and show your claw. After the end of the encounter, choose a planet in that player's home system, send all ships on it to the warp, and move it to your home system to become a new home planet for yourself (do not automatically establish a colony on it). Then, return your claw card to your hand and choose any card from your hand to become your new claw.

Each stolen planet in your home system counts as a foreign colony toward your win, even if inhabited by other players. (If you gain a colony there, the colony is a home colony and the planet itself still counts as a foreign colony.)
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Recently, entire planets have gone missing, leaving behind only orphaned, desolate moons – one of which was marred by enormous claw marks.

Wild: As a main player or ally, if both revealed encounter cards are attack cards of the same value, you may make your side automatically win the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may use your power any time two main players reveal identical encounter cards. When this happens, choose which main player to steal a planet from (your opponent, if you are a main player). You may still only use your power once per encounter.
(As Any Player) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Cloak: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Placement: Cloak has some freedom in how he positions the item(s) he moves, as long as each one is clearly a valid association. For example, a card cannot be ambiguously positioned between two different hands. The Cloak is allowed to "hide" a moved card underneath the other cards of a player's hand; the other players may have a hard time seeing its destination, but they can still identify that there was a change at the source of that move (another player's hand is missing a card, or the top of a discard pile has changed).
[q="Cloak (Red)"]Makes Secret Changes

You have the power to Act Unseen. Whenever both sides in an encounter reveal attack cards and the total of those cards is 20 or more, you may use this power immediately. All players must fan out their hands facedown on the table and then the other players immediately close their eyes and turn away from the table while you count out 15 seconds aloud. During this time you may move one ship, one card, both, or neither. If moving a ship, it must be from a planet to another planet or the warp, or from the warp to a planet. If moving a card, it must be from one player's hand (without peeking) to another or to the top of the appropriate discard pile, or from the top of a discard pile to a player's hand. As a diversion, you may slightly shift other ships and cards without changing their location.

After the first 15 seconds are up, count out another 15 seconds while the other players look for the changes you made. They may not touch their cards or discuss, gesture, or communicate with each other in any way. Before time runs out, any one of those players, on a first-come, first-served basis, may claim that you moved one ship, one card, both, or neither, and must identify either the source or destination for each move. If that player is completely correct, he or she may either undo any or all changes or receive one reward. If the player is incorrect or no claim is made before time runs out, no changes are undone and you receive one reward.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Reveal)

Tired of simplistic shoplifting and bored with petty voyeurism, the Cloaks now venture forth draped in interstellar gauze, tweaking this and adjusting that.

Wild: As a main player or ally, during the planning phase, you may force each player (including yourself) to simultaneously pass one card from his or her hand to the player on his or her left. Any player who has no cards in hand must pass the card received along to the next player, but may peek at it first.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)

Super: You may use your power if both sides reveal negotiate cards.
(As Any Player) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Clone: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
FAQ ruling: If Sorcerer switches cards, the one Clone ends up with is the one he may return to his hand. FAQ clarification: Clone prevents his card from going to the discard pile, so it takes effect before powers like Filch and Fido that wait for cards to be discarded.
Retooled gameplay: FFG omits the clarification that Wild Clone overrides Vulch, but this does not appear to be a gameplay change.
Edited to implement the FAQ ruling on Sorcerer and to clarify that Wild Clone can be played after the artifact has had its effect (rather than having to play the flare first and risk the artifact getting Card Zapped).
[q="Clone (Green)"]Keeps Own Encounter Card

You have the power to Replicate. As a main player, after the encounter is resolved (and after any compensation is claimed), you may use this power to add your encounter card to your hand instead of discarding it.

If your encounter card gets replaced by another one, the final card you use in the resolution phase is the one you may add to your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

A prolific species on a slowly cooling globe, the Clones traditionally selected the best of their race to represent them in territorial struggles. But as the gene pool thinned, one clan developed techniques to artificially duplicate their champion before battle. Thus, always rejuvenated, they came to dominate their world during the geologic crisis and emerged from it anxious to carry their new knowledge into a Cosmic competition.

Wild: You do not have to discard an artifact you just played. Instead you may retain it and play it again during a later encounter.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may choose to receive up to double the normal amount of compensation, if your opponent has sufficient cards.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Converter: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Unanswered question: What is meant by "ships saved during an encounter"? This would apply at all times except during a Start Turn phase. Surely the designer didn't mean "ships saved during the other seven phases," but the intentions of this phrase are beyond the deductive capabilities of the Cosmodex.
[q="Converter (Yellow)"]Can Substitute Cards for Ships

You have the power to Exchange. Whenever you would lose ships to the warp, you may use this power to discard up to an equal number of cards from your hand. Each card discarded saves one of your ships and prevents it from being sent to the warp. Ships saved during an encounter are returned to any of your other colonies.

Whenever you would retrieve one or more ships from the warp, you may use this power to instead draw cards from the deck. Draw one card for each ship you choose not to retrieve from the warp.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The versatility of the Converters makes them highly prized as manufacturers and business partners. They can take virtually any piece of technology and change it into something completely different. Some theorize that they eat the original materials, creating some suspicion about how the new materials appear.

Wild: As an ally, if you would lose one or more ships to the warp due to losing an encounter, you may force every player on the winning side to discard one card at random from his or her hand.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: In any phase, you may discard any number of cards from your hand. Then, you may retrieve ships from the warp or draw cards from the deck, in any combination you choose, equal to the number of discarded cards.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Coordinator: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Coordinator (Yellow)"]Manipulates Destiny Deck

You have the power to Schedule. As the offense, instead of drawing a card from the destiny deck, you may use this power to look at the top three cards of the destiny deck and choose any one of them to be the destiny card you have drawn. Place the other two cards on the top and/or bottom of the destiny deck in any order you choose.

When you use this power, if there are fewer than three cards remaining in the destiny deck, shuffle the destiny discard pile together with the destiny deck to form a new deck. You may only use this power once per encounter.
Do Not Use with Dictator
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Destiny)

Warfare in the Cosmos is rarely well scheduled. However, amidst the chaos, the Coordinator is able to prepare for different contingencies far more than most other races. Despite the seeming random nature of conflict, the Coordinator delights in using its insight and impeccable timing to ensure that all parties involved have sufficient time to annihilate each other.

Wild: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may discard your destiny card and draw again.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)

Super: After another player draws your color from the destiny deck, you may choose to continue the encounter with you as the offense and the player who drew your color as the defense. The encounter then proceeds as normal. Regardless of the outcome, the original offense then ends his or her turn and play passes to the next player.
(Defense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]
:Coward: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Encounter cards: When Coward flees, both sides' encounter cards will be discarded normally but they are not actually revealed (and there isn't even a reveal phase). Thus game effects which depend upon cards being revealed, such as Alien, Bully, Chronos, The Claw, Cudgel, Fire Dancer, Loser, Pacifist, and Poison, do not apply. Wild Prophet technically still works, though, because it counts how many negotiate cards were played, not how many were revealed (another good example of why these two terms are not synonymous). Successful encounter: Coward's "success" doesn't much matter when he is the defense. This phrase is basically a shorthand for saying "if you were the offense, and this was your first encounter (or you are the Machine), and you still have an encounter card in your hand, and nothing forced you to end your turn, then you may have a second encounter (or draw a tech card if playing with the tech variant)." No loser: When Coward flees there are no losing ships, losing side, or losing main player; thus, effects like Wild Arcade, Bully, Fungus, Hypochondriac, Pirate, Reactor, Wild Reincarnator, Wild Swinder, Tyrant, and Void will not apply. The opponent wins, but not by any particular margin, so things like Arcade, Daredevil, and Winner also do not trigger. However, Remote still works because it targets an opposing ship (not necessarily a losing one), and Prophet and Sycophant need only predict a winner, not a loser. Similarly, a Judge's fiat in favor of the winner still stands, but a fiat favoring the loser has no effect if the Coward flees.
[q="Coward (Yellow)"]Withdraws From Encounters

You have the power to Flee. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to flee. Proceed to the resolution phase. Your opponent wins, your ships and those of your allies return to other colonies, and your flight counts as a success for you rather than a loss. After encounter cards are discarded, you receive one reward for each ship your opponent had in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Chanting "To flee or not to flee," the Cowards retreat their way around the Universe, keeping a jaundiced eye on possible ultimate domination via the back door.

Wild: After encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may flee from your encounter and count it as a success. Give your encounter card to the defense. Return your ships to your colonies. The defense discards normally and his or her ships remain on the planet. All ally ships return to colonies.
(Offense Only) (Planning)

Super: When you flee, before encounter cards (and kickers, if any) are turned faceup to be discarded, you may instead privately examine them and add any or all to your hand, discarding the rest. If you keep any of those cards, do not receive rewards for fleeing.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Crusher: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Power vs. sheet: An unfortunate edit in the final stages of development replaced "sheet" with "power" in the last sentences of Crusher and Fire Dancer. These two terms are not actually interchangeable; you can lose your power without losing your sheet via effects such as Plant and Wild Philanthropist, and perhaps even by just getting zapped. These situations should not release all crushed ships or extinguish all fire tokens.
Edited to restore the correct wording convention.
[q="Crusher (Yellow)"]Reduces Ships to One

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the 20 ships of that color on this sheet (16 if you are playing with four planets per player) as crusher ships. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Crush. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to crush the ships of the other main player and his or her allies. For each affected player, stack his or her involved ships and place one of your crusher ships from this sheet on top. Each crushed stack is controlled by its owner, and moves and counts as a single ship in every way. A crushed stack may not have ships added to or removed from it and may not be re-crushed into another stack.

Whenever one or more of your ships go to the warp, you may use this power to choose one other player and crush all of that player's ships in the warp that are not already crushed.

During the alliance phase, you may use this power to release one or more crushed stacks in exchange for anything their owners could give you as part of a deal, and/or in exchange for their owners agreeing to receive cards from your hand. The released ships remain in place and the crusher ships return to this sheet.

If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all crushed ships are released wherever they are.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Crushers are a simple, rather brutal race with straightforward tactics.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may make your opponent's ships in the encounter count as just one ship for encounter totals, compensation, and rewards.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: When losing ships to the warp, each ship you lose may crush a different player's uncrushed ships in the warp.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Cryo: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Set aside: The other cards set aside with Wild Cryo may be kept face-down, since you set them aside before revealing your hand to discard it. (See also set aside.) Unanswered questions: Can both effects of Super Cryo be used during the same encounter? If so, does it matter which one is used first? Noteworthy interactions: When used to build a "power hand," Cryo's power is susceptible to all the same effects that can make Genius a non-power.
Tip: Generally you will choose between using your cold storage to build up a "power hand" for later use, or as a dumping ground for cards you either don't want to be forced to play or don't want other players to acquire. If you are able to store a card like Hand Zap or any of the Wild flares for Deuce, Filch, Mirror, Oracle, Pacifist, and Trader, then you may want to consider using the cold storage for both purposes at the same time, since you'd be able to play the good cards and purge (or improve) the bad ones. 
Tip: Once you pick up your cold storage, other players will naturally want to raid your hand. If you are able to store any protection or recovery cards like Card Zap, Cosmic Zap, Emotion Control, Finder, Ionic Gas, Wild Hacker, or Wild Miser, do so.
Retooled gameplay: Mr. Reda's Cryo was more flexible, allowing cards to be stored any time during the encounter. His Wild Cryo was completely different: it allowed the player to exempt two cards from compensation (essentially a subset of FFG's Wild Miser). Reda's Super Cryo did not include the ability to take the stored cards as a new hand even when they numbered fewer than eight cards. This addition by FFG makes the card more useful, but also poses a dilemma for its prerequisite and timing bars. As printed, the second effect technically can be used only during the Alliance phase and only if Cryo is a main player or ally. This is probably not what was intended. On the other hand, relaxing the bars to (As Any Player) and (Any Phase) in order to match the second effect creates a new problem for the first effect by visually implying that a card can be stored at any time. This, then, requires the phrase "when using your power" to reinforce that the restrictions of the base power are still in effect.
Edited for clarity, to fix Super Cryo's prerequisite and timing indicators to accommodate its second effect, and to clarify its first effect in light of the revised indicators.
[q="Cryo (Yellow)"]Saves Cards for Later

You have the power to Preserve. As a main player or ally, after allies are invited, you may use this power to take one card from your hand and put it in cold storage by placing it facedown on this sheet. Afterwards, draw one card from the deck. Cards on this sheet are frozen and cannot be looked at or drawn by any other player, nor are they part of your hand.

If you have at least eight cards on this sheet, you may discard your hand at any time to take the cards from this sheet as your new hand.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Thanks to their unique metabolism, the Cryo are able to enter hibernation for millennia, awakening only when their people have need of them. However, the time is fast approaching when the Cryo may finally awaken all of the great heroes of their past to lead them to Cosmic conquest.

Wild: When you draw a new hand, you may first set aside any or all of your non-encounter cards (including this flare). Then, draw a new hand of eight cards before adding the cards you set aside back into your new hand.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When using your power to store a card, you may swap it for a card in storage instead of drawing a card from the deck.

In addition, you may discard your hand to take your cards in storage as a new hand regardless of how many cards you have stored.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Crystal: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Crystal was completely different: it let the player control how many ships each other committed ally had to send to the encounter. However, the original history and Wild flare effect have been retained. (Some players have commented that Remote could be a merged replacement for both Crystal and Magnet, with a little bit of Fungus mixed in.)
Edited for wording consistency.
[q="Crystal (Yellow)"]May Multiply Attack Cards

You have the power to Refract. As a main player or ally, use this power after both main players reveal attack cards. Any one player on your side can discard one attack card from his or her hand that matches the value of your side's revealed attack card. If a player does so, multiply your side's revealed card by the discarded card's value. For instance, if your side reveals an attack 08, any one player on your side may discard an attack 08 to change the revealed card into an attack 64.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Arranged in orderly three-dimensional lattices, Crystals tend to dominate the arrangement of their local environment. They know that, with a few suggestive seeding hints, they can bring the entire Universe into the most efficient energy packing: Crystalline order.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may rearrange your ships among your colonies as you wish.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: When another player discards a card to activate your power, you may add that card to your hand.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Cudgel: Alien power, base set, designed by Ken Hubbard, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Tip: The normal ruse of placing only one ship into the hyperspace gate to make it look like you don't expect to win can be even more convincing for Cudgel, since you are also giving up the chance to smash additional ships. This can lead your opponent to conclude that you have a negotiate or a low attack, causing him to do the same.
Retooled gameplay: Hubbard's Super Cudgel affected all opposing allies rather than allowing the player to specify individual allies.
[q="Cudgel (Green)"]Opponent Loses More Ships

You have the power to Smash. As a main player, when you win an encounter in which you revealed an attack card, use this power to force your opponent to lose extra ships of his or her choice equal to the number of ships you had in the encounter, in addition to any ships he or she would normally lose.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

The customary greeting among Cudgels is a hearty handshake and a solid blow to the head. This long-standing tradition – often fatal – is frequently misunderstood by weaker races, much to the amusement of the Cudgels. Now, having flattened all of their closest friends, the gregarious Cudgels look skyward, leaving the debris of their broken planet behind. With fists raised in friendship, they seek out new beings to meet, greet, and smash, and will not stop until the Cosmos itself is shattered.

Wild: As the offense, when you gain a colony, you may send all ships on that planet belonging to other players to the warp. Ships that were allied with you on this encounter are not affected.
(Offense Only) (Resolution)

Super: When you use your power on a player, you may affect any of that player's allies also. Each player you smash loses the number of ships you had in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Cult, The: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Infinite loop: The Cult should probably not invite Warhawk as a member, because every time he has an encounter with another cult member there will be an infinite loop of the main players' encounter cards oscillating between negotiate and attack 00. (A similar issue occurs with Bleeding Heart.) While one might think the Timing Conflicts rule would prevent these loops, it actually does not since Warhawk and the other power are never trying to have their effect at exactly the same time.
[q="The Cult (Red)"]Recruits Members

You have the power of Allegiance. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to offer your opponent membership in The Cult if he or she is not already a member. If your opponent accepts, he or she places one of his or her ships on this sheet from any colony. Members of The Cult are bound by the following rules:

• When both main players are in The Cult, no alliances are allowed and all revealed encounter cards that are not negotiates become negotiates.
• When only one main player belongs to The Cult, all ships of all members of The Cult that are on foreign colonies in the targeted system but not involved in the encounter will count as 1 each toward The Cult member's total. These ships will go to the warp if The Cult member loses.
• A Cult member may not willingly ally against another Cult member.
• A game win for a member of The Cult is a win for all members of The Cult.

When any other member of The Cult is a main player, before allies are invited, that player may lose four ships to the warp and discard four cards from his or her hand to renounce The Cult. His or her ship on this sheet returns to any colony. That player is no longer a member.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Once a religious retreat, The Cult is now expanding their fervor to other Cosmic systems.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may play this flare. All of your ships on foreign colonies in the opponent's system count toward your total but will not be lost to the warp if you lose the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may cancel another player's attempt to renounce The Cult.

At the start of any turn, you may denounce and remove any other player from The Cult. His or her ship on your sheet returns to one of his or her colonies.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Cyborg: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Playing from discard pile: When Wild Cyborg plays a card from the discard pile, that card is actually picked up and played normally, and subject to the same effects as any other played card, including being zapped, stolen, converted, etc. Wild Cyborg and other flares: Under the standard rules, Wild Cyborg cannot target a flare because this would require playing more than one flare during the same encounter. Using the Freewheeling Flares variant, however, this would be allowed. In this case, the recovered flare follows the rules normally and thus returns to the player's hand unless it is zapped or its text says to do something else with it. Presentation overhaul: The base power takes a baffling and broken approach to defining which cards return to the sheet and when replacement cards are drawn. The text is wasteful, redundant yet inconsistent, illogical, ambiguous, and leaky. The issues include the fuzziness of what constitutes "normally being discarded," effects like Chronos sending an encounter card back to the Cyborg's hand, Sargasso Web removing from the game a card that "would normally be discarded," and a single cosmic quake (according to Kevin Wilson's interpretation) destroying Cyborg's power for the rest of the game. Worse, all the flares that should be given to another player after use (including the atypical ones like Wild Changeling and Wild Reincarnator) remain on the sheet to be used repeatedly for the rest of the game. (How did such a mess make it through playtesting?) These problems seem to stem from some notion (incorrect, of course) that if a card is not being discarded, it must by necessity be returning to your hand. The Cosmodex normally prefers to integrate smaller, focused changes into a text where necessary, but in this case a complete recast is required. The two major defects are thus re-expressed as straightforwardly as possible: (1) if a bionics card would normally return to your hand, it returns to the sheet instead, and (2) at the end of the encounter you should (if necessary) draw until you are back to three cards on the sheet. Once these changes are made, the Game Setup paragraph then becomes unnecessary.
Edited for wording consistency, to fix major leaks, to eliminate the ambiguity about cards that "would normally be discarded," to eliminate redundancy, for readability, to fit the text onto the standard art template, and to fix various issues with Super Cyborg not actually being "played," leaving your hand temporarily but remaining under your control, turning up as one of your bionics cards, etc.
[q="Cyborg (Yellow)"]Has 3 Extra Faceup Cards

You have the power of Bionics. At the start of every encounter, if you have fewer than three cards on this sheet, draw cards from the deck to place faceup on this sheet until you have three. These cards are not part of your hand.

At any time, you may play a non-encounter card that is faceup on this sheet as though it were in your hand. 

As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an encounter card, you may use this power to discard your side's revealed card and replace it with an encounter card that is faceup on this sheet.

Cards from this sheet that should return to your hand return here instead.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

A perfect marriage of biology and technology, the Cyborgs have been an odd mix of contrasts ever since they first showed up in the Cosmos. Loyal and caring toward one another, yet coldly logical when need be, the Cyborgs have done the math and know that they will eventually rule the Cosmos for the greater good of all races.

Wild: You may play the top card of the discard pile as though it were in your hand. You may use this flare only once per encounter.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When drawing cards to place on your sheet, you may draw until you have four there instead of three.

When this flare is on your sheet, it does not count as one of your three or four cards.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Daredevil: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Zach Whelchel, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to fix the Super flare error (when the design team revised Daredevil's base power from 3 to 4, we caught it on the Wild flare but I missed it on the Super).
[q="Daredevil (Yellow)"]Cuts Close to Gain Rewards

You have the power of Risk. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to discard one attack card with a value from 01 to 08 from your hand. Subtract that value from your side's total.

As a main player or ally, when your side wins an encounter by 4 or less, each player on your side receives rewards equal to the number of ships he or she has in the encounter (in addition to any other benefits received for winning).
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Preferring an uncertain but exciting existence to predictability, Daredevils thrive on adrenaline, even that of others. Danger elevates the Daredevils' abilities, and their allies either rise quickly or fall hard. For Daredevils, the closer the shave, the bigger the rush.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this flare. If your side wins by 4 or less, you may use one of your ships in the encounter to establish a colony on any planet in the opposing main player's system. Otherwise, lose three ships of your choice to the warp.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)

Super: You may cause the players on your side to receive rewards if you win by 6 or less rather than 4 or less.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Demon: Alien power, 42nd Anniversary edition, designed by Robin Raianiemi, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Contest Winner: This implementation of Demon was the winning entry in the 2014 CosmicCon alien redesign contest; a copy was given out to CosmicCon attenders, although misprinted with a timing indicator of Launch. It was then later added to the base game in the 42nd Anniversary edition and the timing was corrected to Alliance. After CosmicCon, it was pointed out that Demon was a functional superset of Doppelganger, and the design committee reported that it would need revisions before getting published officially. Unfortunately this was not done.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Demon was completely different: it could take over another player's encounter by replacing his ships with Demon's own ships.
[q="Demon (preview edition) (Yellow)"]Possesses Others' Hands

You have the power to Possess. As a main player, before allies are invited, you may use this power to take possession of the hand of any other player except your opponent. Place those cards facedown on this sheet. They are not part of your hand, but you may use cards from here as though they were in your hand. If a card played from this sheet would return to your hand after use, return it to its previous owner instead. At the end of the encounter, return any cards remaining on this sheet to their previous owner.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Hailing from deep within the core of a molten planet, a race of Demons was exiled from their original galaxy for unprincipled opportunism. Knowing their mere presence saps others' will to win, they now seek Cosmic vengeance.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may possess any one other player except your opponent in order to force that player to ally with you when it is his or her turn to do so. That player must send as many ships as possible, up to the number of ships you have in the encounter, but he or she is not required to abandon any colonies to do so.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may draw six cards from the deck to possess instead of another player's hand. If a possessed card would return to your hand after use, it does so. At the end of the encounter, return any remaining possessed cards to the top of the deck in any order.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Dervish: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Dervish (Yellow)"]Rotates Cards Left or Right

You have the power to Whirl. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to call "clockwise" or "counterclockwise." Each player involved in the encounter as a main player or ally must pass his or her hand of cards in the chosen direction to the next player involved in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

The constant whirling and high-speed revolution of the Dervishes make them unpredictable and chaotic. In fact, their undulations have been known to make some aliens queasy. Dervishes delight in bold sweeping tactics and surprises in combat, sometimes turning their opponents' resources against them.

Wild: As the defense in your home system, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may exchange your hand with the hand of any other player.
(Defense Only) (Launch)

Super: If you are passed this flare as a result of using your power, you may play it to immediately establish a colony in the system of the player who passed it to you. Afterwards, discard this flare.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Deuce: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. One encounter card: If Deuce is reduced to exactly one encounter card as the defense, he draws a new hand (according to his power text). If he is reduced to exactly one encounter card as the offense, however, he continues the encounter normally but just doesn't use his power. The text requires proceeding as if out of cards only when "checking to see if you draw a new hand," not when "checking to see if you must end your turn." Self-modifying encounter cards: When Deuce uses a Morph, a Retreat, or a variable attack card as his second card, it will modify itself upon being revealed (as appropriate, based on the opponent's encounter card or the current hazard warning status). However, Deuce's text limits the ways in which the second card can influence the encounter. When his second card is a Retreat and the opponent reveals an attack, Deuce's text does not allow the Retreat to take part in determining the encounter outcome, and thus it cannot force him to lose; but it also cannot save his side's ships if he loses anyway because of his actual encounter card. If Deuce reveals a Retreat as his regular encounter card and an attack as his second card, the Retreat either loses or deals (as usual) and is kept, while the attack card is discarded. (Note that it is not possible to play an intimidate card for Deuce's power, since the intimidate is not an encounter card at the time it would have to be played.) Which negotiate to apply or discard? When Deuce has revealed two different negotiate cards (such as a regular one and a Crooked Deal, or a negotiate and a Morph/Retreat that "went green"), the Cosmodex recommends letting the player choose which one applies to the encounter. He should then discard that same card, since it was actually used and the other was not. A Retreat that becomes a negotiate is a candidate for discarding like any other negotiate, but one that remains a Retreat will be kept since Deuce's text allows only for attacks and negotiates to be discarded. In the profoundly unlikely case that Deuce reveals two Retreats and the opponent reveals an attack, Deuce would lose the encounter and keep both of his cards. Which attack to discard? When Deuce has revealed two attack cards, both will apply to the encounter and the higher one must be discarded. If they have the same numeric value but are actually different in some significant way (such as cosmic-back 10 + reward-back 10, 12 + 12/21, or Morph + any attack card that matches the opponent's card), the Cosmodex recommends letting the player choose which attack card to discard and which one to keep. Wild Deuce and card modifications: Player consensus is that Wild Deuce must match another card's value after any modifications by other effects, rather than its original, printed value, since the flare's effect is directly relevant to the encounter outcome (see card modifications). Tip: Against Anti-Matter and/or Loser, try to get multiple use out of any negative attack card you have. For example, if you have attack -07 and attack 06, play them together against Anti-Matter or an upset Loser; they will combine for a total of -1 and you will get to keep the -07 to use against that player again. Tip: A Morph or a Retreat may sometimes be attractive to Deuce as a backup to a primary attack card, especially when he is the defense, since this configuration lets him meet a potential attack with strength while also preserving the opportunity to make a deal for a new colony should the opponent reveal a negotiate. Thus, for Deuce, attack + morph or attack + retreat functions much like an intimidate card would. On the other hand, if Deuce has a lot of weak attack cards, he may want to keep playing the Retreat as his main card and one of the weak attacks as his second card in order to recycle the Retreat, repeatedly saving his ships and colonies while he purges the weak attacks.
Retooled gameplay: FFG's Deuce plays essentially the same as Eon's, but does a better job of clarifying how to handle the extra card, as well as when the Deuce draws a new hand. Eon's Wild Deuce was completely different: it allowed a player to make one extra encounter at the end of his turn.
[q="Deuce (Yellow)"]Plays 2 Encounter Cards

You have the power of Duality. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, use this power to place a second encounter card facedown off to one side. This second card is not considered your encounter card and isn't affected by game effects that target your encounter card, such as those of the Oracle or Sorcerer. If both of your encounter cards are revealed to be attacks, the second card's value is added to your side's total. If either is a negotiate, then you have played a negotiate. After the encounter is resolved, discard the negotiate card if you played one, or the higher attack card if you did not, returning the other encounter card to your hand.

When checking to see if you draw a new hand, do so if you have one or fewer encounter cards left, rather than none.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Planning)

Twin suns and a double moon have endowed the ambidextrous Deuce with twice the strength of their opponents. Cleverly concealing their real motives behind an amiable mask, the duplicitous Deuce see universal control within reach.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, if you have an attack card in your hand that is identical to one of the revealed cards, you may discard it, either adding or subtracting its value from the total of the player who played the matching card.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: After the encounter is resolved, you may discard both your encounter card and your extra card.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Dictator: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Patrick Riley, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Tip: At those times when you hope to draw your own color for destiny, or if there is a particular player that you absolutely do not want to encounter on your turn, you can increase your odds by repeatedly giving other players their own color for destiny; some (most?) of them will want destiny redrawn, thus speeding up the process of getting cards that are not your color out of the destiny deck.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Dictator was optional while FFG's is mandatory; however, this difference is more academic than actual, since the FFG player can simply "choose" the top card of the destiny deck, accomplishing the same result as not using his power. Eon's Dictator could simply declare a color to override the destiny disc drawn; FFG's improved design maintains the natural distribution of how often players are attacked and also prepares Dictator to have more flexibility with possible future additions to the destiny deck. This version allows a bit more latitude in the rare situation where a player is not required to encounter the defense in the defense's own system (e.g., Wild Will), whereas Eon's version mandated that the encounter had to take place "in the system of that color." Eon's version also appeared to prevent the player from re-drawing destiny in the event that Dictator commands the player's own color. FFG's Wild Dictator is greatly simplified compared to Eon's, which allowed a player to propose a new destiny color and then required all players to vote. (FFG's Wild Dictator is essentially Eon's Wild Chronos restricted to "not offense.")
Edited for wording consistency.
[q="Dictator (Red)"]Controls Destiny Deck

You have the power to Command. When you are not the offense, before destiny is drawn, use this power to take the destiny deck, look through it, and choose any card from it. That destiny card is played as though the offense had drawn it. On your turn, or any time you are zapped, the remaining destiny cards are shuffled, and one is dealt at random.
(Not Offense) (Mandatory) (Destiny)

Grotesque creatures rejected by an old and cultured world, the Dictators pushed and clawed their way to planetary dominion. Relentless in their demands, they turn friend against friend to do their bidding. Recently they have begun to tire of toying with the weak races at home and seek to control the entire Universe.

Wild: When you are not the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may force the offense to discard the destiny card he or she drew and draw again. Use this flare only once per encounter.
(Not Offense) (Destiny)

Super: You may use your power as the offense.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Diplomat: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Rob Burns and Patrick Riley, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Diplomat did not require playing a negotiate card to use the power.
[q="Diplomat (Yellow)"]Can Negotiate 3-Way Deals

You have the power to Negotiate. When you are not a main player and one or more attack cards are revealed in an encounter, you may use this power to play a negotiate card from your hand and turn the revealed attack cards into regular negotiate cards. Then, you and the two main players have two minutes to attempt to reach a three-way deal. Apply all unique effects found on the three negotiate cards. Unless all three players agree on a deal, the deal fails and each loses the appropriate number of ships. All three players are treated as opponents of each other for game effects that affect deals.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Reveal)

A foreboding presence held in awe by other planetary life forms, the Diplomats strike only when their webs are fully spun. Then, for extricating those caught by their own rash acts, the Diplomats negotiate their terms.

Wild: When a deal is being attempted without you, you may play a negotiate card from your hand to remove one of the players from that deal and take his or her place. Restart the time limit. Your card's game effect applies, and you receive the deal's benefits or penalties as appropriate. If you make a deal, it counts as a success for the player you replaced.
(Not Main Player) (Reveal)

Super: As a main player, after alliances are formed, instead of playing encounter cards to determine the winner you may call a vote of all players (defense wins ties). You may buy votes by making deals, which are carried out only if you win. Tally the results and proceed to the resolution phase.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Disease: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Three-ship requirement: The way in which this power was rewritten caused players to debate whether it is required to have three ships together on a single colony or just three ships anywhere within the system; presumably FFG did not intend to change the gameplay. Tip: As the game progresses, keep a mental count of what's left in the destiny deck so you know which colors are most likely to come up. Also try to figure in who has the fewest ships in the warp, the most foreign colonies, and the biggest hand if those special destinies have not yet been drawn. This will help you know where your most likely infection opportunities are. Try to maintain a colony of four or five ships in those systems, as protection against ship-killer effects like Shadow and Ship Zap, but also so that you can take advantage of the same color coming up twice in quick succession. Nothing stings like losing an infection opportunity because you just spread in that system on the previous destiny draw and split your only three-ship colony there into one- and two-ship colonies.
Retooled gameplay: FFG's Disease plays essentially the same as Eon's (the ambiguity of the rewrite notwithstanding), but clarifies that it also works on a special or wild destiny. Eon's Wild Disease made all other players as a group discard various resources in a manner somewhat like Sniveler's effect, and it did not have the matching aspect of the FFG version. Eon's Super Disease was completely different; it allowed Disease to spread even if it had only one ship in the host system, using ships from any of its colonies anywhere. Historical note: Eon's Disease had the power to "spread"; FFG's change to "contagion" is a weaker fit, and the game text's statement that you infect that player does not make sense: the player had to be already infected before this power could even be used, when Disease got his first colony in that system. (A power that truly "infects" would be one that helps you get your first colony somewhere, not your second and later ones.) The original theme made perfect sense and did not need to be tinkered with. Wording template: Among the base game and the first three expansions sets, 11 flares were designed to be given to the associated alien after use. Curiously, those 11 cards used 10 different wordings to say so. The versions on Wild Disease and Wild Filth are the most concise and nearly identical to each other, and after Cosmic Storm this template was used as the standard (on five flares in Cosmic Dominion and 11 in Cosmic Eons). Appendix B revises the earlier flares to use this template.
Edited to remove the ambiguity about the prerequisite for infecting, to clarify that Disease cannot infect himself even on a wild destiny, and to avoid misusing the game term "reveal."
[q="Disease (Red)"]Spreads to Other Planets

You have the power of Contagion. Whenever any other player's color or a special destiny card that targets another player is drawn from the destiny deck, you may use this power to infect one of that player's planets. If you have a colony in the infected player's home system consisting of at least three ships, take one or more of your ships from it, moving them to any other planet in that system. On a wild destiny card, you may infect only the opponent that is chosen to be the defense.
(Not Defense) (Optional) (Destiny)

Long ago, having decimated all life forms on their native planet, the Disease seemed in danger of extinction due to their own success. The advent of interstellar travel, however, gave them a new lease on life. Once the Disease secure a foothold on a new world, it is only a matter of time before they dominate it.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may force every other player to choose one card from his or her hand in secret. Cards are then shown simultaneously before being discarded. Any player who showed the same card type (attack, negotiate, etc.) as another player loses 3 ships to the warp. Give this flare to the Disease after use (or discard it, if the Disease isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: At the start of any regroup phase, you may move one of your ships from one of your colonies to another of your colonies.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]
:Doppelganger: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Jack Reda and Bill Martinson, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Retooled Gameplay: Eon's Doppelganger could haunt any player, including his opponent, and specified exactly one attack and one compromise (negotiate) card, since other types of encounter cards had not yet been invented. If that Doppelganger received only one card, he played it; if he received none, he played the first appropriate card drawn from the deck. The original version always had to discard encounter cards immediately; this modernized Doppelganger discards encounter cards in the planning phase, so that he has the chance to hold some for effects like Hate, Love, and Wild Disease. Eon's Wild Doppelganger was completely different: it allowed you to keep the number of ships committed to the hyperspace gate a secret until the end of the encounter. Eon's Super Doppelganger was completely different: it allowed Doppelganger to keep flares he acquired (which is of course part of the base power in the FFG version).
[q="Doppelganger (Red)"]Borrows Cards to Play

You have the power to Haunt. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, use this power to discard all encounter cards in your hand (if any) and haunt one other player except your opponent. That player must give you two encounter cards of different types from his or her hand (or one if holding only one type). One of these must be the player's highest attack card, if he or she has any. When encounter cards are to be selected, if you have fewer than two encounter cards for any reason (including being zapped), you draw from the deck until you have two, discarding all non-encounter cards drawn. After cards are revealed, return any cards received from the haunted player that are still in your hand to that player.

You ignore all consequences of lacking encounter cards, such as drawing a new hand (even for game effects such as the Usurper's power), ending your turn, or losing the encounter due to the Laser's power.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Planning)

Haunting its Cosmic colleagues, the Doppelganger often gets the better of them. Each encounter leaves its jittery victim with the feeling that there is more to every passing shadow than meets the eye.

Wild: If you are not a main player, during the alliance phase you may set your hand aside and take the hand of one player who has a colony in your system. If you take the offense's hand, he or she draws a new one. At the end of the encounter, give your hand back to that player and take back the hand you set aside.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may also force any player other than your opponent to give you any two non-encounter cards from his or her hand (or one if he or she has only one), which you keep.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Empath: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Gary Huckaby, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Empath was mandatory and worked only when its owner was the player who revealed the Compromise card; that version was often disparaged as an alleged "subset" of Pacifist. Some rightly argued that Empath was valuable in its own right since it could earn its owner a new colony when on defense (which Pacifist cannot do), but Pacifist was clearly preferred and certainly the stronger of the two overall. FFG's choice to adopt Huckaby's revised version considerably strengthens Empath and further differentiates it from Pacifist; two welcome improvements. (See negotiate cards.) The classic edition flare matches Eon gameplay; the standard edition Wild flare is a new effect designed by FFG.
Edited to clarify that the first use of "negotiate" includes Crooked Deals while the second use excludes them, and to keep Masochist from abusing Classic Wild Empath for an immediate win.
[q="Empath (Green)"]May Change Attack to Negotiate

You have the power of Harmony. As a main player, after either main player reveals any negotiate card and the other main player reveals an attack card, you may use this power to change the revealed attack card into a regular negotiate card. You and the other main player then attempt to make a deal.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Eons of overpopulation forced the highly social Empaths to cooperate in order to survive. On their lush, tropical planet, they learned the value of defense and yielding. Now, they are striving to teach harmony to all other Cosmic life forms.

Wild: You may play this flare when you attempt to make a deal. If you successfully make a deal, you and the other player in the deal each receive three rewards.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: As a main player or ally, if the opposing main player reveals a negotiate card, you may exchange it for an attack card from your hand. Conclude the encounter as if he or she revealed that attack card.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Classic Edition
Wild: As a main player, for the rest of this encounter, you may remove one ship from any colony (your choice) to the warp from each other player who does not say "Sir" or "Ma'am" (whichever is appropriate) each time he or she speaks.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: As a main player or ally, if the opposing main player reveals a negotiate card, you may exchange it for an attack card from your hand. Conclude the encounter as if he or she revealed that attack card.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Emperor: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Rescue: If a ship marking a tribute is released by something like Ship Zap or Super Symbiote, it's probably best to return the tribute card to its giver. (This return is consistent with a similar situation that can occur with Pack Rat.) However, if you prefer, there's no harm in leaving the tribute on the sheet for Emperor to consider later. A tribute without an owner ID probably wouldn't contribute to meeting the condition of "tributes from two different players," and probably shouldn't be returned as unworthy to its giver since it would no longer have a defined giver.
[q="Emperor (Yellow) "]Demands Tribute

You have the power of Tribute. Each time another player sends one or more ships into an encounter in your system or gains a colony in your system, you may use this power to demand a tribute. That player must show you one card from his or her hand and must also give you one of his or her ships from a colony. Place the card facedown on this sheet and put the ship on top of the card as an owner ID. The player may refuse if he or she has already given you a tribute during this encounter.

At the end of any encounter, as long as there are three or more total tributes on this sheet from at least two different players, you may look at all of them. Add the tributes you consider worthy to your hand and discard those you consider unworthy. You may return one of the unworthy tributes to its giver, causing that player to lose three ships to the warp. Then the ID ships return to any of their owners' colonies.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The egotistical magistrates of the Emperor race demand respect above all else. Rarely do gifts curry much favor with these narcissists, but an enticing offering made in a feigned spirit of deference can often turn away wrath, if only briefly.

Wild: When a main player declines to invite you to ally, you may show him or her a card from your hand to reconsider. If that player invites you, then he or she decides which of you must keep the card. If he or she does not, then you decide which of you must keep the card.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may demand an encounter card, a non-encounter card, a card of one particular type, or a specific card by name. The other player must meet your demand if possible. (If not, then he or she offers any card normally.)
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Engineer: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Warren Denning, history by Zach Whelchel, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to add the missing preposition (mea culpa).
[q="Engineer (Yellow)"]Gains Tech When Losing

You have the power of Technology. As a main player, when you lose an encounter or fail to deal, you may use this power. Draw two tech cards from the technology deck (even if it is not otherwise in play). You may choose one of the drawn cards to place facedown on this sheet. If you do so, and another tech was already on this sheet, the new one replaces it. The tech(s) you do not keep are discarded.

You may research the tech card on this sheet normally and/or count your ships in the warp toward its research cost. When the tech is completed, move it off this sheet. Ships counted from the warp do not return to colonies with other researching ships, but may be used for the effect of a tech such as Coldsleep Ship or Genesis Bomb.

If this power or a tech card on it is stolen, discarded, etc., any ships that were researching the tech card on this sheet are returned to any of your colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Engineers seek to rule the Universe through technological superiority. Valuing intelligence and ingenuity over might, they use scientific breakthroughs to subjugate those who oppose them, no matter how strong.

Wild: You may draw cards from the deck until you draw an artifact card. Non-artifacts drawn are discarded. If you exhaust the deck without drawing an artifact, take any one artifact from the discard pile. Give this flare to the Engineer after use (or discard it, if the Engineer isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When using your power, instead of drawing two tech cards you may look through the technology deck and take one card of your choice. Then, shuffle the technology deck.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Evil Twin: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Evil Twin has 2 twin tokens.
Edited to use the correct name of Nightmare's essence cards.
[q="Evil Twin (Red)"]Avoids Penalties

You have the power to Blame. As a main player, after the offense launches ships, you may use this power to declare any other player except your opponent as your good twin by giving him or her a twin token. Until the next time destiny is drawn, losses and penalties suffered by you must instead be suffered by your good twin. Then your twin token is returned to this sheet.

Losses and penalties include cards from your hand which are supposed to be discarded, cards which you must give to another player (other than your good twin), and ships which are supposed to go to the warp. Also, essence card penalties such as tickets, traumas, and bad dreams given to you are passed on to your good twin. When you lose a colony, your good twin loses the number of ships you had on the colony to the warp. Your ships which would have been lost return to your other colonies if possible. Otherwise, they remain on the colony.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Launch)

On a world where all are twins, it was not long before the powerful evil twins began dodging responsibility. ETs grow stronger as cast-off GTs habitually shoulder wrongful blame.

Wild: When you must send ships to the warp or lose cards to compensation, as long as you are not currently a good twin to the Evil Twin, you may force the player to your left to suffer the loss of the same number of ships or cards, if possible, instead of you. Give this flare to that player after use.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may become triplets by giving twin tokens to two other players, even if one is your opponent. Each of your two good twins simultaneously suffers each entire loss or penalty which would have been suffered by you. Both tokens return to your sheet on the next destiny draw.
(Main Player Only) (Launch)
[/q]
:Explorer: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by the fans, illustrated by Andrew Olson. Discovered planets: Explorer begins with four discoverable planets on its sheet even if you are using the Four Planets variant, or playing multiple powers with something like Ace. In every way, discovered planets are normal home planets in the systems in which they reside.
[q="Explorer (Yellow)"]Finds New Planets

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place four planets of that color on this sheet. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power of Discovery. As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may use this power to take a planet from this sheet, place it in the targeted system, and re-aim the gate at that planet.

As a main player or ally, after both players reveal attack cards, you may use this power to increase your side's total according to the planets you have discovered. Add 1 for each discovered planet you do not have a colony on, 2 for each discovered planet you coexist on, and 4 for each discovered planet you occupy alone.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Launch) (Reveal)

As the various child-races of the Precursors began to take to the stars, most were drawn to one another in their hunger for knowledge, trade, defense, conflict, and the other manifold needs that drove them forward. The Explorers, however, often bypassed other sentient beings in their haste to catalog new worlds. Even centuries later, this obsession continues; but now they begin to reap the rewards of their diverse discoveries.

Wild: As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may take the Genesis planet (whether it is in use or not), place it in the targeted system, and re-aim the gate at that planet. You may receive rewards equal to your ships in the encounter if you win or make a deal, or one reward if you do not (in addition to any other benefits of the encounter outcome).
(Offense Only) (Launch)

Super: As a main player or ally in an encounter at any planet you discovered, after encounter cards are revealed you may add 4 to your side's total.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Extortionist: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Classic Wild Filch: Extortionist cannot extort cards stolen using Wild Filch; as soon as he becomes aware of the Filching, the other player is caught and must return the cards. Zombie: Based on rulings in the FAQ about Zombie using effects that require ships to be lost, it would seem that Zombie is immune to extortion.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Extortionist could be paid off with Lucre, rather than by sacrificing a ship to the warp. Eon's Wild Extortionist was completely different: it extorted Lucre from a player who flipped your color twice in a row for destiny.
Edited to prevent Extortionist from affecting card draws by effects such as Chosen, Miser, Chrysalis, and gaining new tech, to restore Eon's approach of taking the cards after the other player has collected them rather than the leaky method of trying to acquire cards instead of the other player, and to recast Super Extortionist for readability and removal of the old Eon reference to a Lucre "payment."
[q="Extortionist (Yellow)"]Gets Half of All New Cards

You have the power to Extort. After starting hands are dealt, whenever any other player collects compensation or draws new cards for his or her hand from any deck for any reason (including rewards, new hands, etc.), before those cards are added to that player's hand you may use this power to take half of them (rounded down) at random for yourself instead. A player may prevent you from extorting any cards from him or her by allowing you to send one of his or her ships of your choice to the warp, but he or she must do so before you take any cards.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Warped by an unstable environment, the Extortionist has long been crazed by greed. Extortionists prefer wealth that has been unjustly siphoned from honest wage-earners, and now, with their hands ever extended, they hope to amass enough for the final takeover.

Wild: When you attempt to make a deal with another player (or players), you may play this flare. If you fail to make a deal, you do not lose any ships to the warp, while the other player (or players) failing to make a deal lose twice as many ships to the warp as usual for the failed deal.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may prevent a player from stopping your extortion via ship loss.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Fido: Alien power, base set, designed by Brandon Freels, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: Fido can retrieve only an encounter card that was used to resolve the encounter, not one that was discarded for some other reason. Reward deck: Fido cannot draw his "payment" from the reward deck; even though this benefit matches the outcome of a (pre-Incursion) reward, it is not defined as a reward. Playtester clarification: Fido is allowed to retrieve cards from the reward deck discard pile (there is a "grace period" during which grabber effects can take discarded reward-back cards immediately after they are discarded).
Retooled gameplay: Freels' Fido retrieved cards "on their way to" the discard pile rather than after being discarded, was not limited to encounter cards discarded at the end of an encounter, defined the payment as a reward (which would have let Fido draw from the reward deck when an opponent keeps an offered card), and made the reward mandatory (FFG's version appears to make it optional whether you collect the reward-that-isn't-a-reward). Freels' Wild Fido was completely different: it allowed the player to take the top card of the discard pile (selecting any one card if several were just discarded). Freels' Super Fido was less flexible, requiring the player to fetch all cards discarded at the same time.
Edited to specify what happens if Fido does not want to keep a card that has been refused, to resolve the conflict between "you may" implying the payment is optional and "either" implying it is mandatory, and to clarify the scope of the power as defined in the FAQ.
[q="Fido (Yellow)"]Retrieves Discarded Cards

You have the power to Fetch. After encounter cards are discarded at the end of an encounter, you may use this power to retrieve one of the discarded cards and offer it to another player. If the card is refused, you may keep or discard it. If the card is accepted, the other player keeps the card and you may retrieve one ship from the warp or draw one card from the deck. You may retrieve only an encounter card that was used to resolve the encounter, not one that was discarded for some other reason.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Resolution)

Trained for generations by a strict, but unknown, alien race, the Fidos were bred for retrieval. Slinking out on their own, they cannot help but fetch the debris of outer space for whomever happens by, knowing they will still be rewarded in some way.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may force your opponent to take the top card of the discard pile and add it to his or her hand. You then draw a card from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may fetch any or all of the encounter cards discarded at the end of an encounter and offer them, one by one, to the other players in any order you choose.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Filch: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. FAQ ruling: If Sorcerer switches cards, the one Filch's opponent ends up with is the one Filch may steal. FAQ ruling: Using Classic Edition Wild Filch does not count as playing a flare card until you are caught. Error in FAQ: Filch cannot take Gambler's unrevealed card, because Filch thieves cards only from the discard pile and Gambler does not discard his card unless it is challenged and revealed. Playtester clarification: Filch is allowed to retrieve cards from the reward deck discard pile (there is a "grace period" during which grabber effects can take discarded reward-back cards immediately after they are discarded). Sneaky trick: If you're any alien other than Filch, you can play the non-classic Wild Filch on yourself. You'll have to reveal the identity of one of your artifacts, but it might be worth it if you really want to get rid of a negotiate card. (You'll have to feint with an artifact because you can't play two flares in the same encounter.)
Retooled gameplay: The classic edition flare matches Eon gameplay; the standard edition Wild flare reflects Mayfair's change to the card.
Edited to remove incorrect implication that all artifacts and flares have a "victim," to implement the FAQ ruling on when Classic Edition Wild Filch is actually played, and to fix Classic Edition Super Filch's incorrect timing bar (so it agrees with both the text and the standard edition Super Filch).
[q="Filch (Green)"]Takes Opponent's Used Card

You have the power of Theft. As a main player, after encounter cards are discarded at the end of an encounter, you may use this power to retrieve your opponent's card from the discard pile and add it to your hand.

If your opponent's encounter card gets replaced by another one, the final card he or she uses in the resolution phase is the one you may add to your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Within their genteel, sophisticated tribes, the Filches have refined the art of acquisition to a high aesthetic. The most judicious and subtle thefts are memorialized in legend and song. Lately they have taken to eyeing the depths of space and thoughtfully rippling their tentacles.

Wild: When any artifact or flare card is being played, you may discard a negotiate card from your hand to steal it. The stolen card has no effect, going into your hand instead.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may filch one other player's used encounter card whether you were involved in the encounter or not.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Classic Edition
Wild: You may cheat and take your ships from the warp (to colonies) or cards from the deck or discard pile, even when you are not entitled to them. If caught in the act, you lose one ship to the warp and return the items you were caught filching. You don't have to play this flare unless you are caught, but once it is revealed the deck and discards are placed next to you for easy access.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may filch one other player's used encounter card whether you were involved in the encounter or not.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Filth: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by the White Plains group, revised by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Ally clarification: Filth uniquely relies upon a reciprocal interpretation of the word "allies," meaning that the offense is considered an "ally of his allies." Thus, the phrase "your allies in a winning offensive encounter" actually means "any other players on your side when you are the offense or an offensive ally and your side wins." Reek timing: When Filth wins as the offense or an offensive ally, he reeks away the losing defensive ships to other colonies before they can be sent to the warp (see resolution sequence).
Retooled gameplay: Eon's and Mayfair's Filths began by defining the power as acting when ships land on a planet; FFG wisely eliminates this confusion and more cleanly defines the power as a continuous effect. FFG has also cleaned things up a fair amount by eliminating the old redundant text about players re-challenging fumigated planets, and adding an excellent clarification that when allies land on other planets, they each get to choose one individually. Earlier versions gave the impression that all players are driven off a planet simultaneously, but FFG's version is written in the singular; thus the power drives away one opponent at a time (in the order of Filth's choosing) and is susceptible to a zap each time it does so.
Edited to clarify the reciprocal use of "allies," to fix the old language (copied from both Eon and Mayfair) incorrectly implying that all colony trades involve colonies from both players (as written, Filth technically requires both to vacate planets even if only one colony is being granted) and to more safely attach this requirement to the actual trade itself rather than to the initial agreement (which could cause planets to be vacated too soon if something happens to alter or cancel the deal).
[q="Filth (Red)"]Drives Away Others' Ships

You have the power to Reek. Any time any of your ships are coexisting on the same planet as any other player's ships, use this power to force the other player's ships to return to his or her other colonies.

When you are the offense or an offensive ally, your allies in a winning encounter do not land on the targeted planet with you. However, they each still gain a colony on any other planet of their choice (each player chooses separately) in the defending system.

As the defense, when you lose an encounter on a planet where you have ships, use this power to force all opposing ships to return to their other colonies instead of landing on that planet. Your losing ships go to the warp normally and the planet is then "fumigated."

When you trade a colony to or from another player in a deal, each player granting a colony must vacate a planet for the other player to land on.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Filth's reverence for the past leaves it unable to remove any trace of earlier events – whether yesterday's glatorp stains or last year's diseased kinzosh. Having driven all other life forms from their homeworlds, they are slowly extending out to leave their mark – a ring around the Cosmos.

Wild: At any time, you may declare one planet to be "filthy." All ships there return to their other colonies. Any ships that should land there during this encounter instead return to their other colonies. Give this flare to the Filth after use (or discard it, if the Filth isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As the offense, when you aim the hyperspace gate at a planet, you may play this flare. All other players' ships on that planet (including those of the defense) must immediately return to their other colonies.
(Offense Only) (Launch)
[/q]
:Fire Dancer: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Fire Dancer has 8 fire tokens. Power vs. sheet: An unfortunate edit in the final stages of development replaced "sheet" with "power" in the last sentences of Fire Dancer and Crusher. These two terms are not actually interchangeable; you can lose your power without losing your sheet via effects such as Plant and Wild Philanthropist, and perhaps even by just getting zapped. These situations should not extinguish all fire tokens or release all crushed ships.
Edited to restore the correct wording convention.
[q="Fire Dancer (Yellow)"]Blocks Access

You have the power to Awe. As a main player, when you reveal an attack card and there is no fire token in the targeted system, you may use this power to place a fire token in that system. At the end of that encounter, all attack cards revealed are placed faceup under the new fire token as fuel instead of being discarded (regardless of other game effects such as the Clone's power).

When you are not a main player, after destiny is drawn, you may offer to create or expand a fire in the targeted system, and the defense may offer you anything he or she could give you as part of a deal to do so. You may use this power to accept the offer. If the targeted system does not already have a fire token, place one there. Then, you and the defense may each place one attack card from your hand faceup under that system's new or existing fire token as fuel.

Whenever both sides in an encounter reveal attack cards in a system with a fire token, unless you are the offense or an offensive ally, the face value number showing on each fuel card is added to the defense's total. At the end of the encounter, a fire which added to the defense's total is extinguished, and the fire token and fuel cards are discarded. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, all of your fires are extinguished.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Destiny) (Reveal)

The Fire Dancers stir a sense of awe by performing their cultural art form for others who compete to be the next sponsor of their magical performance.

Wild: After the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may force the offense to aim the gate at a different planet in the targeted system where he or she can have a legal encounter against the defense.
(As Any Player) (Launch)

Super: At the start of your turn, you may place one attack card from your hand faceup underneath one of your fire tokens.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)
[/q]
:Fodder: Alien power, base set, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Ambiguity: Super Fodder's text is unclear about whether one or both of the base power's numeric constraints are being overridden, but according to Mr. Reda the discarded cards still must be lower than the opponent's attack card.
Retooled gameplay: Reda's Fodder required its owner to always play his lowest attack card in every encounter, thereby forbidding the use of negotiate cards until all attack cards had been exhausted. This requirement was exempted by Reda's Super Fodder. (FFG's rewrite of the Super flare provides a more or less analogous effect, given the fact that their base power does not require starting with the lowest card.)
Edited to clarify that Wild Fodder does not allow you to join a side that did not invite you, and to resolve Super Fodder's ambiguity.
[q="Fodder (Yellow)"]Plays Additional Low Cards

You have the power to Overwhelm. As a main player, you may use this power after both you and your opponent reveal attack cards. You may discard any or all attack cards in your hand that are both higher than the attack card you played and lower than the attack card played by your opponent, adding their values to your total.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Always regarded as an inferior, scavenging race, the Fodder have amassed a multitude of generally less-effective arms. With the astonishingly large cache of second-rate weapons, the Fodder can afford to overwhelm their adversaries.

Wild: After encounter cards are revealed, if you were invited to ally and declined, you may ally with one ship on a side that invited you.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may discard (and add) any or all attack cards in your hand that are lower than your opponent's card, regardless of your own attack card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Fungus: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Fungus vs. Wild Fungus: When Wild Fungus captures a fungoid stack, the stack remains together (until lost to the warp) but counts as only a single ship because "Captured ships do not have special characteristics." Transferred power: When the Fungus sheet is traded (Changeling, Psychic Switcheroo, Wild Sorcerer), stolen (Plant, Wild Plant), or lent (Wild Philanthropist), the fungoid stacks probably should not transfer to the new player (in spite of a couple of these effects saying that all facets of the power are handed over). To attempt to do so would simply be too messy and ambiguous. It's probably best to have the previous Fungus player just treat them as though they were normal, single ships until they go to the warp. Card loss leak: Eon's Wild Fungus stated that captured ships were returned when you "lose" the flare, but FFG changed this to "discard." When the flare is lost without being discarded (taken as compensation or by Trader or Finder, for example), this leaves the captured ships stranded in the captor's system for the rest of the game, without it being clear whether they still count toward encounter totals. Probably this gameplay change was not intentional.
Edited to fix the main player bug, to clarify interactions with game effects like Anti-Matter and Virus, to plug the lose-without-discarding leak, to delete the confusing and unnecessary phrase "if any" (see Appendix B), and to fix Super Fungus' incorrect prerequisite and timing icons.
[q="Fungus (Yellow)"]Attaches to Other Ships

You have the power to Adhere. As a main player or ally, after your side wins an encounter in which you have at least one ship, use this power to capture any losing ships, stacking them under one or more of your ships in the encounter instead of sending them to the warp (game effects that would save ships from the warp, such as Zombie's or Healer's power, cannot prevent this). Captured ships do not have special characteristics (e.g., Macron ships are not worth four). These stacks are controlled by you. Each stack is considered to be one ship for purposes of play. Ships that are part of a stack are only freed when the stack enters the warp. Freed ships return to normal and may leave the warp as usual. If this power is stolen, your stacks do not transfer with it, but remain stacked until separated in the warp.

As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power. Each stack you have in the encounter counts as the number of ships it contains toward your side's total instead of 1. Zapping this power does not free any captured ships.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal) (Resolution)

The Fungus clings tenaciously to its basic perceptions, and now its neighbors find its teachings (and tendrils) rapidly growing upon them.

Wild: As the defense, when you win in your home system, you may capture all opposing ships in the encounter and place them in a circle around your system. They now count toward your total when you are the defense in your home system, but do not go to the warp if you lose. Captured ships do not have special characteristics. When you lose this flare, the captured ships return to their owners' colonies.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: Ships adhering to yours in stacks don't have to be freed when sent to the warp. When one of your ships is released from the warp, those ships in its stack remain with it.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Fury: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Add or Subtract: Fury is one of the few aliens that manipulates encounter totals but is not perturbed when facing Anti-Matter, because she can subtract if she wants to.
Edited to prevent Super Fury from saying "use your power" in a context where you don't actually use your power.
[q="Fury (Green)"]Avenges Lost Ships

You have the power of Vengeance. Each time one or more of your ships are lost to the warp or removed from the game, use this power to place one token on this sheet for each of those ships.

As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may discard any number of tokens from this sheet to add or subtract 3 from your side's total for each token you discard.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Powerful warriors of a matriarchal race, the Furies swear vengeance on anyone foolish enough to defeat one of their champions in battle. Although the quest may take years, the vengeance of the Furies is always served in the end.

Wild: As a main player, when you lose an encounter, you may destroy one ship (their choice) belonging to each player that opposed you. Destroyed ships are removed from the game. This flare cannot reduce a player to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game, although it still affects the other players that opposed you.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: You don't have to discard tokens from your sheet. Instead, you may add or subtract 3 from your side's total for each token on your sheet.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Gambler: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Error in FAQ: Filch cannot take Gambler's unrevealed card, because Filch thieves cards only from the discard pile and Gambler does not discard his card unless it is challenged and revealed. FAQ ruling: When facing Oracle, Gambler must either play his card face up or use his power during the Planning phase to make a declaration about it before Oracle chooses an encounter card. (This restores the way the two powers originally interacted under Eon gameplay.) Upping the ante: Jack Kittredge ruled that Super Gambler is allowed to increase the number of ships at risk beyond the number he currently has available to lose (Encounter magazine v1n5p8). House rule: The printed Do Not Use restriction is easily overcome by simply allowing Gambler to still bluff about the card he originally played; in this case, Sorcerer must then accept or challenge Gambler's claim about the card Sorcerer is about to reveal (and may not look at it if he accepts the claim). This solution was offered by Bryan Stout in Encounter magazine v1n4p3.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Gambler was mandatory (which created an issue with Silencer) and allowed an unchallenged bluff card to be "buried" in the discard pile, rather than requiring it to be placed at the bottom of the deck. FFG fixes Eon's ambiguity about whether Gambler gets to see the opponent's card before making his claim.
Edited to resolve what happens with an unchallenged reward-back card, to eliminate the Do Not Use conflict with Sorcerer, to implement the FAQ ruling on Oracle, to eliminate trying to calculate a "spread" with negotiate cards, for terminology, and to fix Super Gambler's mathematical ambiguity.
[q="Gambler (Red)"]Bluffs About Card

You have the power to Bluff. After your opponent reveals his or her encounter card, you may use this power to keep yours facedown, instead stating what it is (and lying if you like). If your opponent does not challenge your claim, conclude the encounter as if your statement were true, then place your encounter card facedown on the bottom of the appropriate deck instead of discarding it. If your opponent challenges your claim, reveal your card. If you lied, you lose as many ships to the warp as you had in the encounter. If you told the truth, your opponent loses as many ships as he or she had in the encounter. These lost ships may not be ships involved in the encounter. Afterwards, conclude the encounter normally using the revealed cards.

If another game effect switches the encounter cards (e.g., Sorcerer), you may still bluff about the card you originally played, forcing your opponent to accept or challenge your claim about the card that he or she would now reveal. If another game effect forces you to show your card early (e.g., Oracle), you may use this power at that time.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Arising in an era of geological turmoil, the Gamblers trusted only their own audacity. The faint of heart soon perished, but the most daring rose to even greater effronteries and now launch a contest for Cosmic stakes.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are revealed, you may call any number as a "spread." If the cards are both attacks and are different from each other by that number or more, add the "spread" to your card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When stating what your card is, you may "up the ante" by saying how many extra ships (1-20) are at risk. The penalty for lying or calling a non-bluff is now increased by the number of ships you declared.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:General: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to clarify that the card draws are limited to the cosmic deck.
[q="General (Green)"]Draws Cards for Allies

You have the power of Leadership. As a main player, after alliances are formed, use this power. You may immediately draw one card from the deck per player allied with you. Afterwards, each of your allies may draw one card from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Alliance)

A military society from their earliest days, the Generals have always placed a high value on leadership and charisma. Their history is full of some of the most inspiring speeches ever given in all the Cosmos. Whenever a ragtag band of warriors stands up to defy the odds, a General will be there to lead them. Whether fighting the enemy on the beaches or standing with a few lucky men to fight for freedom, a General will smile and say, "I love the smell of Ionic Gas in the morning... It smells like victory."

Wild: As a main player, after both main players have revealed attack cards and you are losing the encounter, you may rally the troops and draw cards from the deck equal to the number of ships your allies have in the encounter. Play any reinforcements you draw and discard the rest of the cards.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: If you use your power and both main players reveal attack cards, you may add 2 to your total for each ship your allies have in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Genius: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Eric M. Lang, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Noteworthy interactions: Genius is essentially a non-power when an alien such as Barbarian, Dervish, Hacker, Mite, Trader, or Whirligig is in the game, and is similarly devastated by a single successful use of Hand Zap, Enigma Device, or Wild Vulch.
Edited to clarify that the flare's card draws are limited to the cosmic deck.
[q="Genius (Red)"]Wins with 20 Cards

You have the power to Outwit. As a main player or ally, whenever you gain a foreign colony as the result of winning an encounter, you may use this power to instead draw one card from the deck for each ship you have in the encounter and then send your ships in the encounter back to your other colonies.

At the start of any turn, if you have 20 or more cards in your hand, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Originating on a planet filled with some of the Universe's deadliest predators, the Geniuses had to be smarter and more ruthless than any other creature on their world in order to survive. Now that they've left their home planet, the Geniuses have turned their prodigious intelligence toward a bloodless coup of the Universe.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may force any number of players you choose (including yourself) to draw a card from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may guess a number from 0 to 40. If your opponent reveals an attack card with a value within 3 of your guess, shout "Eureka!" and draw four cards from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Ghoul: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Jeffrey Field, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: Field's Ghoul earned one reward for every lost ship regardless of which side it was on, counted ships removed from the game, and allowed Ghoul to earn a Lucre in lieu of a reward. Field's version also counted ships lost for any reason during the entire encounter, not just those lost as a result of the encounter. Field's Wild Ghoul was completely different: it allowed an involved player to take a card from the loser's hand for each of his winning ships. Field's Super Ghoul was completely different: it was poorly written, but appears to have allowed a winning Ghoul to earn additional rewards based on his own tokens in the challenge, and to retrieve tokens from places other than the warp. (The phrase "from a token stealing power like the Void" does not make any sense since Void does not steal tokens, so it is unclear whether the intent was to recover tokens "from capturing powers like Fungus" or to recover tokens removed from the game.)
Edited to fix the rewards bug.
[q="Ghoul (Red)"]Rewarded for Defeating Ships

You have the power to Feast. As a main player, after you win an encounter, use this power. For each opposing ship sent to the warp as a result of the encounter, you receive one reward.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Haunting the edges of battlefields and devouring the losers to sate their endless hunger, the Ghouls are greatly feared throughout the Universe, particularly by those aliens that normally attack en masse. More subtle tactics are required against the Ghouls, lest they emerge from battle stronger than ever.

Wild: As a main player, after you win an encounter, you may use this flare. Receive one reward for every player that opposed you in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power as an offensive ally if your side wins.
(Offensive Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Glutton: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Matthew Cary and Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: The phrase "up to" is ambiguous in the context of a MANDATORY effect. Is this intended to give Glutton the flexibility to retrieve 0, 1, or 2 extra ships from the warp, or just an attempt to acknowledge that he might have fewer than 2 extra ones available when this effect is triggered? (All other "up to" effects except Vacuum provide a choice.)
[q="Glutton (Green)"]Gets Extra Ships and Cards

You have the power to Gorge. Whenever you retrieve one or more of your ships from the warp, use this power to retrieve up to two extra ships of yours from the warp.

Whenever you draw one or more cards from the deck (including when you are dealt your starting hand) or take one or more cards from another player's hand, use this power to draw two extra cards from the same source.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Once described as 50% mouth, 50% stomach, and 50% appetite, the insatiable Gluttons have devoured their way across the Cosmos ever since they (quite literally) ate themselves out of house and home. Those dealing with the Gluttons are advised to count their digits afterwards and to always keep an eyestalk or two on their "tender, succulent" offspring.

Wild: When receiving rewards, you may receive twice as many rewards as usual.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When a cosmic quake occurs, you may use this flare to immediately win the game.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Gorgon: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Mark Gilston, revised by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled gameplay: Whereas Mayfair's Gorgon froze opposing ships at all times except when they were supposed to be lost to the warp, FFG has unfortunately given Gorgon's victims a choice and thus the flexibility to exploit the power to their own benefit. Any time you must send ships of your choice to the warp (e.g., when failing to make a deal), just select any that are petrified, then choose to keep them on that planet instead of losing them. Or, to get out from under Gorgon's influence whenever you are allowed to select ships to move (e.g., when populating the hyperspace gate), select some that are petrified and move them to the warp instead of their intended destination. This also leads to ambiguity since it is not always clear, when ships are being sent to the warp, which player is technically the one who "attempts to move" them. It is likely that these changes were unintended, and so the revised wording presented here restores Mayfair's original effect, with tweaks to account for captured and eradicated ships. (However, see resolution sequence for comments on how the as-written version would interact with the fact that winning offensive ships land on the targeted planet before the losing defensive colony is removed.)
Edited to prevent opponents from exploiting Gorgon to their benefit, to account for capturing and eradication, to clarify Wild Gorgon so it refers not just to "destroyed" planets but to planets "removed from the game" for any reason, and to clarify Super Gorgon's awkward construction by using the wording from Wild Healer, whose effect it duplicates.
[q="Gorgon (Red)"]Petrifies Others' Ships

You have the power to Petrify.

Whenever another player's ships are about to be removed from any of your home planets and/or any planets on which you have a colony, unless those ships are being captured, sent to the warp, or removed from the game, use this power to prevent them from moving.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The horrifying sight of the Gorgons petrifies any creature that looks upon them. A stranger to a Gorgon world might think this race overly fond of statuary, only to find the statues springing back to life once the Gorgons leave. Because of their powerful effect on others, the Gorgons often find it difficult to get others to cooperate in their quest for Cosmic conquest.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may choose a planet. Ships on that planet cannot defend or move during this encounter and cannot be sent to the warp during this encounter unless the planet is removed from the game.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: You may cause any Cosmic Zap played on you to be discarded without effect.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Graviton: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to clarify that a card compressed to a single digit still has an implied tens digit of zero (which could be relevant for something like Mirror), and to fix Super Graviton's incorrect timing icon.
[q="Graviton (Yellow)"]Compresses Attacks to 1 Digit

You have the power of Gravity. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power and say either "tens" or "ones." If you do so, any attack cards revealed in the encounter only use that digit as their value. For instance, if you said "tens," an attack 40 would become an attack 04 and an attack 09 would become an attack 00, but if you said "ones," those same cards would become an attack 00 and an attack 09.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

A cunning, intelligent race from a binary star near a black hole, the Gravitons have mastered the ability to manipulate gravity. Herding and squeezing their enemies into tighter and tighter formations, the Gravitons rely heavily on their allies and reinforcements to finish the fight.

Wild: As a main player (if the Graviton is not your opponent), you may play this flare before encounter cards are selected. Any attack cards revealed in this encounter only use their ones digit as their value (e.g., an attack 12 would become an attack 02).
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: When using your power, you may declare that it will affect only your card or your opponent's card.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Greenhorn: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Chris Oliveira, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
[q="Greenhorn (Green)"]Makes Convenient Mistakes

You have the power of Ignorance. At the start of each encounter, if you have card(s) in your hand, use this power to show one of the cards in your hand to one other player. Then, ask him or her a question about that card, aloud. He or she does not need to answer the question.

Whenever you have no attack cards in your hand, you may draw a new hand.

During any regroup phase, you may rearrange your ships among any of your colonies and/or home planets, even the home planets where you have no colony.

You may play your kicker after encounter cards are revealed rather than before they are selected; play reinforcements when you are not involved in the encounter; and play rifts and artifacts that are limited to the regroup or alliance phase as though they were playable As Any Player and during Any Phase.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

The Greenhorns are relative newcomers to the scene of Cosmic warfare. Feigning inexperience, they use their wiles to trick other races into allowing them to get away with everything in the book. Surely such room is all that is needed for these "newbies" to glide comfortably into universal dominance.

Wild: If your hand is out of attack cards, negotiate cards, or both, you may discard your hand and draw a new one (potentially continuing your turn if you are the offense).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may choose any player who has a colony in the indicated system to become the defense. Have your encounter against one of his or her colonies in that system.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Grudge: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Special component: Grudge has 7 grudge tokens. FAQ ruling: If a player chooses to ally and subsequently leaves or is removed from the encounter (e.g., because of Force Field, Gluon Mines, or Super Amoeba), he is still credited with choosing to ally and thus does not receive a grudge token.
Retooled gameplay: FFG introduced "grudge tokens" as a memory aid, and improved the competitiveness of this alien by expanding and basically reversing the gameplay. Eon penalized refusers only when Grudge wins or deals; FFG penalizes refusers whether Grudge is successful or not, but specifies the larger penalty of 4 tokens when Grudge loses or fails to deal. Retheming: Sadly, the new artwork ignores the "suction discs" mentioned in the classic Eon history for this alien.
Edited to define what happens when Grudge's outcome is something other than win/lose/deal/fail to deal.
[q="Grudge (Red)"]Penalizes for Refusing to Ally

You have the power of Revenge. As a main player, after alliances are formed, use this power to give a grudge token to each player you invited to ally, but who did not do so. If you win the encounter (or make a deal), each player with a grudge token discards it and loses one ship of his or her choice to the warp. If you lose the encounter (or fail to make a deal), each player with a grudge token discards it and loses four ships of his or her choice to the warp. Otherwise, grudge tokens are discarded without effect. Lost ships cannot include ships used to ally with the other side.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Alliance)

Suffering from a species history of almost uninterrupted betrayal and disappointment, the originally kind Grudges gradually grew cynical. Expecting no good will from others, they began to brood and resolved to wreak vengeance on all who would turn aside their outstretched suction disc of friendship.

Wild: As a main player, if your opponent wins the encounter, you may force his or her allies to receive nothing for the win, instead returning their ships to their colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may force each player who discards a grudge token to lose 4 ships to the warp, regardless of whether or not you won the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Grumpus: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited for consistency and clarity on which powers are protected from loss, and to add missing gender-neutral language.
[q="Grumpus (Yellow)"]Kicks Others Off Vacated Planets

You have the power to Grump. Whenever one of your colonies is removed from any planet, use this power. At the end of the current phase, every other player who has a colony on that planet must send one of his or her ships from that planet to the warp.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Grumpus is indeed a stodgy curmudgeon. Other species prefer not to interact with the Grumpi, lest they be drawn into a long-winded conversation about how the Universe was better back in their millennium. And be careful where you tread when visiting the Grumpus home world; they cannot stand it when there are aliens on their lawn.

Wild: After the hyperspace gate is aimed, you may choose one player. That player must send one of his or her ships from the targeted system to the warp.
(As Any Player) (Launch)

Super: When you use your power, you may force each other player who has a colony on the planet you vacate to lose one ship from each colony he or she has in that entire system, not just the planet your ships were removed from.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Guerrilla: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Matthew Cary, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Edited to clarify that Wild Guerrilla cannot blow up planets in other players' systems, to fix the attack bug, to define what happens to bystander ships on the planet, and to correct the "as normal" reference (it is not "normal" for winning ships to go to the warp).
[q="Guerrilla (Green)"]Winners Lose All But 1 Ship

You have the power of Attrition. As a main player, after you lose an encounter, use this power to weaken your opponent and each of his or her allies. Each player you weaken loses all but one of his or her ships in the encounter to the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Used to fighting against superior forces, the Guerrillas have learned to strike from the shadows, wearing down their opponents' numbers even when they lose a battle. Seeing themselves as heroic underdogs, the Guerrillas have set out to liberate the Cosmos from those alien races who would oppress it, whether the Cosmos wants to be liberated or not.

Wild: As the defense, after you lose an encounter in your system, you may blow up your own planet rather than allow it to be colonized. The planet is removed from the game along with all of the opposing ships (your side's ships are sent to the warp as usual, along with any bystanders on the planet). A player cannot be reduced to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game. Any ships removed from the game that would reduce a player below this number are sent to the warp instead.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may force each player you weaken that has three or fewer ships in the encounter to lose all of those ships to the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Hacker: Alien power, base set, designed by Gerald Katz (as Violin), illustrated by Felicia Cano. Noteworthy interaction: Hacker essentially makes Genius a non-power.
Retooled gameplay: Katz's Violin did not allow targeting a player other than the opponent. Katz's Super Violin was completely different: it apparently allowed Violin to collect compensation from all of his opponent's allies and to use his power to choose the cards.
Edited for wording consistency and to resolve the ambiguity about whether Super Hacker can give any of the victim's own cards back to him.
[q="Hacker (Green)"]Chooses Compensation

You have the power to Hack. As a main player, when collecting compensation, you may use this power to choose the player that you are collecting compensation from, whether that player was your opponent or not. You then look through that player's hand and choose the cards you want for compensation.

As a main player, when your opponent collects compensation from you, you may use this power to select the cards he or she gets.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Masters of technology, the Hackers have embedded various devices into their bodies in an attempt to improve their skills at computer fraud. Although geniuses when it comes to code breaking and decrypting data, Hackers aren't much good in a more conventional battle. However, more than one would-be conqueror has learned to their sorrow that the Hackers have extremely nasty ways of getting their revenge.

Wild: As a main player, you may prevent your opponent from collecting compensation from you.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: After you collect compensation from the player of your choice, you may also give that player up to the same number of cards of your choice from your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Hate: Alien power, base set, designed by Eric M. Lang, illustrated by Felicia Cano. FAQ rulings: When using his power, Hate may be zapped before or after showing which card he intends to discard; in either case, he keeps his card. If Hate discards a morph card, any player who does not also discard a morph must lose ships as usual. Hand refresh: According to Kevin Wilson, when Hate is out of encounter cards at the start of his turn, he must collect a new hand before using his power. Super Hate: When Hate plays his Super flare, that flare is on the table waiting to resolve while he chooses which card to show the other players; thus the flare itself cannot be that chosen card because it is not in his hand at the time.
Edited to implement Kevin Wilson's hand refresh ruling.
[q="Hate (Yellow)"]Opponents Lose Cards or Ships

You have the power of Rage. At the start of your turn (after drawing a new hand, if necessary), use this power to force every other player to either discard a card or lose ships. First, choose and discard a card from your hand. Every other player must then choose to either discard a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.) or lose three ships of your choice to the warp. If you discard an attack card, the other players must discard an attack card of equal or higher value. If another player has no cards of the discarded type, he or she must lose ships. If, after using this power, you do not have any encounter cards in your hand, draw a new hand.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

A short, physically unimposing race, the Hate evolved in a crowded part of the Cosmos and were pushed aside by other, more powerful, races. Forced to subsist on food scraps and the leavings of the other species, the Hate swore that one day they would be the ultimate power on the Cosmic scene.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may force your opponent to discard one card at random from his or her hand. If he or she has no encounter cards left after doing so, you win the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: Instead of discarding a card to use your power, you may show the card to the other players and then return it to your hand.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)
[/q]
:Healer: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: Healer operates just after ships are sent to the warp or out of the game, so game effects like compensation and Remora still occur, and things like Zombie will preempt Healer. Noteworthy interactions: Healer so definitively makes Masochist a non-power that many players have suggested that Masochist receive a "Do Not Use with Healer" restriction. House rule: The Cosmodex recommends not allowing the healing of ships removed from the game, due to its negative impact on other effects. Most obviously it can turn Void and Remote into non-powers, but it also sucks the fun out of things like Black Hole, Wild Fury, and Wild Guerrilla (and would also interfere with the balance of hypothetical future effects like Extractor and Droid). House rule: The Cosmodex also recommends Roberta Yang's suggestion to make it optional for the healed ships to return to colonies; this solves the Masochist problem and also reduces the negative impact on aliens like Warpish.
Retooled gameplay: Eon allowed healing of ships lost (specifically) to the Void, but FFG wisely recast this as a general ability to heal ships removed from the game; thus FFG's Healer applies to things like Super Masochist, Wild Fury, and Wild Guerrilla. FFG's Wild Healer is stronger than Eon's, discarding the Cosmic Zap rather than just sending it back to the player's hand with no effect.
Edited for clarity.
[q="Healer (Yellow)"]Can Save Others' Ships from Warp

You have the power to Heal. When another player loses ships to the warp, you may use this power to heal all the ships he or she just lost and earn one card from the deck. Being healed does not prevent a player from receiving compensation or other benefits associated with the lost ships. A healed player may replace some or all of the healed ships on any of his or her colonies. During an encounter you may heal several players, drawing one card for each.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Rapid geologic activity forced extreme biological diversification on the Healer homeworld. Possessing vast knowledge of herbal and mutant lore, Healers are now prized by other beings for their life sustaining skills. Amidst loud rejoicing over renewed health, who could deny them their modest fee?

Wild: You may cause any Cosmic Zap played on you to be discarded without effect.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may raise your fee for healing other players to one card from the deck per ship you heal.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Horde: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Horde has 38 horde tokens. Changing player color: Wild Schizoid wreaks havoc with Horde (as well as Pygmy and Symbiote) since it creates the very same problems as power theft but sneaks right past the "can't be stolen" restriction, leading to questions about how to handle all the horde tokens. In theory, this conflict could have been prevented by having the flare force Horde to swap systems and ships with another player, but clarifying that all horde tokens remain on their same planets and form their own colonies separate from those of their former associated ships. However, the revision presented here is significantly less complex, and consistent with similar revisions on Pygmy and (especially) Symbiote. This same revision also provides the protection needed against Wild Philanthropist, Psychic Switcheroo, and Wild Sorcerer (since the prohibition against being stolen is too specific to prevent lending and trading). Nerfed Super flare: Since each use of the base power applies to only one card draw or one ship retrieval, and thus produces only a single horde token, and since flares are limited to one play per encounter, then Super Horde can add only one extra ship per encounter. Given that this is astoundingly weak for a Super flare and the card uses the phrase "twice as many" (instead of just "two"), we must assume that this effect was intended to work for all uses of the power during some time interval. The simplest way to save this flare from near uselessness seems to be the "for the rest of the encounter" treatment. (Speculation: Probably the base power originally worked on groups of draws/retrievals as a single unit, but was later revised without considering the flare. If that is true, then the flare's scope originally would have been only all draws or retrievals caused by a common event. However, such an implementation would require significant rewrites to the base power, which the Cosmodex likes to avoid when possible.) Unanswered question: Does drawing a starting hand trigger Horde's power? Other aliens answer this question on their sheets (Extortionist and Relic say no; Glutton says yes), but Horde is silent on the matter. Design note: Horde was called "Replicant" until late in the development process (the alien sheet first posted to facebook still bore the name REPLICANT).
Edited to clarify that Horde counts only card draws from the (cosmic) deck (not draws of destiny, techs, hazards, etc.), to clarify that you continue to control and use horde tokens even when your power is lost, to block power-trading and -lending effects like Changeling, Wild Philanthropist, Wild Sorcerer, and Psychic Switcheroo, to prevent Wild Schizoid from violating the intent of the "power cannot be stolen" clause, to define the apparent intent that's missing from Wild Horde and deal with capturing, and to fix Super Horde so it can add more than one token per encounter.
[q="Horde (Red)"]Gains Tokens That Act as Ships

You have the power to Spawn. Each time you draw a card from the deck or retrieve a ship from the warp, use this power. Add a horde token to one of your colonies. Treat horde tokens as ships under your control, but discard them if sent to the warp, removed from the game, or captured by another player. If you lose this power, horde tokens remain under your control until discarded.

This power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

A little-known race from a Cosmic backwater, the Horde have only one real skill – spawning. Leave a Horde alone in a room for a minute, and you'll return to two Hordes avidly chatting with each other. Leave them in your house for an afternoon, and you'll return home to find that they've taken over your city – at which point, if you're lucky, you'll have just enough time to flee the planet before they claim it in the name of the Horde race.

Wild: During your regroup phase, if there is an unused player color, you may add a ship of that color to one of your colonies instead of retrieving a ship from the warp. It is treated as an extra ship of your color. If that ship ever is alone without any of your normal ships present, goes to the warp, or is captured, it is removed from the game.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)

Super: For the rest of this encounter, when you use your power, you may add twice as many horde tokens as usual.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Host: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Shane Brewer, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Host (Yellow)"]Plays and Adds Unused Flares

You have the power to Channel. At the start of any player's turn, you may remove any or all flares on this sheet from the game, and/or draw cards from the unused flare deck to place facedown on this sheet until you have three here, in either order.

At any time, you may use this power to play a wild flare from this sheet as though it were in your hand. If the flare would return to your hand after use, discard it to the regular discard pile. If you are zapped, place the flare back on this sheet. Cards played from this sheet do not count toward the normal limit of one flare per encounter.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Hosts' ability to channel the spiritual essence of past and future aliens allows them to manifest some of the defining characteristics of their alien occupants. After being channeled, some aliens decide the experience was so pleasant they return to active public life, popping up here and there to affect galactic events.

Wild: You may draw three cards from the unused flare deck and add them to your hand. Give this flare to the Host after use (or discard it, if the Host isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When drawing flares for your sheet at the start of a turn, you may draw two additional cards. Choose from all drawn cards, placing some on your sheet until you have three. The cards that are not chosen are removed from the game.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Human: Alien power, base set, designed by Duke Ritenhouse, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ rulings: Human can be zapped regardless of the types of encounter cards played by both players. When Human and Pacifist are supposed to auto-win at the same time (Pacifist reveals a negotiate; Human reveals an attack and is zapped), use the Timing Conflicts rule. Error in FAQ: If Human zaps himself to win when both players have revealed negotiate cards, his opponent does not receive compensation (because Human did not reveal an attack card). Unanswered question: Is the word "also" on Super Human intended to override the once-per-encounter flare limit? In other words, if Human plays his flare to add 8 to his power, then discovers he is still not winning, can he play his Super flare again to zap himself?
[q="Human (Yellow)"]Mostly Harmless

You have the power of Humanity. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to add 4 to your side's total. If this power is zapped, however, your side automatically wins the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Warlike and fairly dim by Cosmic standards, humans are not seen as much of a threat. However, exposing a human to Cosmic energy can unlock strange and awesome powers. General consensus among the other races is that this is a course of action to be avoided.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, if your opponent is not the Human, you may use this flare to change your encounter card into an attack 42. Give this flare to the Human after use (or discard it, if the Human isn't playing).
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may cause your power to add 8 to your side's total instead of 4. Also, you may discard this flare to zap your power.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Hunger: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Hunger (Green)"]Feeds on Others' Hands

You have the power of Extra Helpings. At the start of your turn, use this power to take one card at random from each other player's hand.

At the start of each other player's turn, use this power to take one card at random from that player's hand.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

Evolving as perpetually ravenous creatures on a planet with limited water, flora, and fauna, the Hunger grew adept at maximizing opportunities to seize and exploit all possible sources of sustenance. Now they are sending their ships out into the Cosmos on foraging missions and hope to gather nourishment from gullible neighbors and fertile, poorly protected planets.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may reveal the top card of the cosmic deck or the reward deck. Either discard that card and keep this flare, or keep that card and give this flare to the Hunger (or discard it, if the Hunger isn't playing).
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: When using your power at the start of another player's turn, you may take up to two cards from that player. Each card taken may be kept, discarded, returned, or given to any other player.
(Not Offense) (Start Turn)
[/q]
:Hypochondriac: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Hypochondriac has 14 anxiety tokens. Remedies: In final editing, "abandoning" was changed to "abandon" and this subtle change from noun to verb technically made the abandonment option no longer qualify as a remedy as intended.
Edited to restore the correct part of speech to "abandoning."
[q="Hypochondriac (Yellow)"]Shares Anxiety

Game Setup: For each other player in the game, place two anxiety tokens on this sheet (e.g., eight tokens in a five-player game).

You have the power of Anxiety. As a main player or ally, during the planning phase, you may use this power to name one other main player or ally who makes you anxious (for any reason). Explain why and seek a remedy. Regardless of who's making you anxious, any player or players may, individually or together, offer you a remedy of anything they could give you as part of a deal and/or abandoning any of their colonies (returning the ships to other colonies). You have one minute to either accept one remedy or give the named player one of your anxiety tokens.

At the end of any encounter that has a winner and a loser, the winner may give up to half of his or her anxiety tokens (rounded up) to the loser, but may give only one if the loser is you. Anxiety tokens may also be traded in deals.

The player or players who have the most anxiety tokens (even you) cannot land their ships on a planet if establishing that colony would win them the game. Those ships return to other colonies.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Parlaying self-pity and hypersensitivity to a new level, the Hypochondriacs are tiptoeing into the realms of deep space to cough in the faces of the Cosmic masses.

Wild: At any time, you may place this card in front of your system and declare yourself "not at home." While this card is in front of your system, no other player may aim the hyperspace gate at one of your home planets. Destiny is drawn again as necessary. At the start of your next turn, give this flare to the Hypochondriac (or discard it, if the Hypochondriac isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may be anxious twice per encounter, but not about the same person.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Industrialist: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by James Beach and James Rasfeld, revised by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's version was less powerful, requiring the add/subtract decision to be made before cards are revealed and specifying that the stack had to be discarded whenever Industrialist revealed an attack card and won the encounter. Mayfair's Wild Industrialist made sure the player drew an attack card from the opponent's hand (if possible), and then was discarded. Mayfair's Super Industrialist allowed the stack to be kept after winning the encounter (a capability which is now part of FFG's base power).
Edited to correct the timing icon.
[q="Industrialist (Yellow)"]Adds Losing Attack Cards

You have the power to Build. As a main player, after you lose an encounter in which you have revealed an attack card, your opponent must either allow you to win the encounter instead of losing, or else allow you to place your attack card faceup on this sheet, adding it to your "stack." Your stack is not part of your hand and cannot be drawn from by other players or affected by other powers.

As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to either add or subtract the total of all the attack cards in your stack from your total. For instance, if you have an attack 08 and an attack 12 on this sheet, you would add or subtract 20 from your total.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

The Industrialists have shown themselves to be masters at learning from their own mistakes. From the ashes of each defeat arises a more powerful assault the next time. Even though the Industrialists don't seem to learn as much from their successes, the strength they've gained from their defeats is sufficient for them to carve out a piece of the Cosmos for themselves.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, you may draw a card at random from your opponent's hand. If it's an attack card, add it to your total, then discard it. Otherwise, return it to your opponent's hand.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When adding a card to your stack, you may add either main player's revealed encounter card (as long as it's an attack) to your stack.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Invader: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Invader vs. Will: When Will draws an Invasion! destiny or the Invader's color, Invader can use his power to draw an extra hand as usual. Will can then use his power if the destiny was Invader's color, but cannot if it was an Invasion! (because in this case he immediately becomes the defense). Optional hand refresh: When another player draws an Invasion! card, Invader is not required to use his power to get a new hand if he's out of encounter cards; thus in this case he can dodge the Invasion! encounter. Formerly known as Boomerang in the Eon and Mayfair editions.
Edited to avoid implying that Invader can choose whether or not to have an Invasion! encounter, to prevent the original offense's encounters from being miscounted when one is interrupted (such as the replacement for his first one being considered his second), to fix the hand-redraw effect so that it works correctly in all encounters (there are four primary scenarios where it applies, but only one of them is in the context of an extra encounter), to make Super Invader properly use the game term "retrieve" (for consistency with Super Observer and clarity with effects that trigger on ship retrieval), to strike its overclarifying final sentence (avoiding any rules-lawyering against effects that send winning ships to the warp), and to eliminate sloppy "max" shorthand.
[q="Invader (Yellow)"]Launches Sneak Attacks

Game Setup: Shuffle the three "Invasion!" destiny cards into the destiny deck. These destiny cards cause you to have an extra encounter when drawn during another player's turn. After you have an extra encounter due to an "Invasion!" destiny card, the player who drew it during his or her turn restarts his or her encounter.

You have the power of Invasion. As a main player, after an "Invasion!" destiny card or a destiny card of your player color is drawn, you may use this power to discard your entire hand and draw a new hand of eight cards. Use this power only once per encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Destiny)

Originating in a place beyond space and time, the Invaders have slowly eroded away the barriers between There and Here, planning their invasion of our Universe all the while. Now, at last, their time is at hand, and they have begun tearing their way through the veils that remain, popping up in an instant to wreak havoc on everything they find in this new, unnatural place.

Wild: At any time, you may discard your hand and draw a new hand of eight cards. Give this flare to the Invader after use (or discard it, if the Invader isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: During an Invasion! encounter, you may retrieve ships from the warp to send into the encounter (the normal limit of four applies).
(Offense Only) (Launch)
[/q]
:Joker: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Phil Fleischmann and the Cosmodex's trained human minion, merged by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Joker has 9 joker tokens, representing six Attacks (04, 08, 15, 16, 23, and 42), Morph, Negotiate, and Retreat.
Edited for capitalization.
[q="Joker (Red)"]Makes Attack Cards Wild

Game Setup: Take the nine joker tokens (six different attacks, a regular negotiate, a morph, and a retreat) and place them faceup on this sheet.

You have the power of Wild Cards. Attack 08 cards are initially "wild." At the start of your turn, you may name any other attack card to become the new wild card instead.

After encounter cards are revealed, for each one that matches the current wild card, use this power. Place one faceup joker token from this sheet on the wild card to change it into the card indicated by that token. After the outcome is determined, return the used joker token(s) to this sheet, facedown. When you remove the last faceup joker token from this sheet, immediately turn the used ones here faceup for re-use.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

The fun-loving Jokers enjoy humiliating the conceited, mocking the powers that be, and causing general chaos. They seek not to rule, but to satirize the Universe.

Wild: As a main player or ally, you may change one revealed negotiate card into an attack 08.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: At any time, you may name any encounter card to become the new wild card, such as attack 06, the regular negotiate card, or Negotiate (Epic Oratory). When you lose this flare, attack 08 immediately becomes the wild card again.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Judge: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
[q="Judge (Red)"]Assigns Extra Win/Lose Terms

You have the power of Fiat. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to declare any extra gains that either the winner or the loser (but not both) will get if an attack card is revealed. These extra gains are limited by the rules on deals: one colony where the opponent has a colony and/or card(s) from the opponent. For example, you may declare "the winner will also get all of the loser's cards, and an extra colony on any planet where the loser has a colony." The fiat is in addition to the normal results, and happens at the end of the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Long ago abandoning physical bodies, the Judges periodically coalesce amidst perfect protocol to deliberate upon their destiny. The Ring of Judges, when reflecting, creates a field of power in which each creature may ponder its fate.

Wild: As a main player, if the two encounter totals differ by less than 5, you may call it a draw. Allies return their ships to any of their colonies and you and your opponent attempt to make a deal as if negotiate cards had been revealed.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: Your fiat may include gains for both the winner and the loser.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Kamikaze: Alien power, base set, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: It is possible that this power is a modification of Dr. Robert Destro's Kamikaze, which could send four ships to the warp to double its attack card.
[q="Kamikaze (Yellow)"]Sacrifices Ships for Cards

You have the power of Sacrifice. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to send up to four of your ships from any of your colonies to the warp. For every ship you sent to the warp, draw two cards from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Always a close-knit society, the Kamikaze have taken the virtue of self-sacrifice and raised it to an art form. In battle, they are greatly feared for their ability to die explosively at will. But the Kamikaze know that when their race rises to Cosmic superiority, those who gave their lives along the way will be remembered forever.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may send up to four of your ships that are not in the encounter to the warp to add 3 to your total for each ship sacrificed.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may retrieve three ships from the warp during your regroup phase instead of one.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]
:Klutz: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Mandatory: Like all other mandatory aliens, Klutz must use his power, even when it costs him a card he wants or sends one of his own ships to the warp. Wild Klutz: The final version of Wild Klutz's wording implies that an extra card is dealt, which was not the design intent. The correct total number is still dealt, but in the process you "clumsily" do one of three things: (a) deal all the cards to the correct player but flip one of them face up to expose it; (b) deal all of the cards face down but send one of them to the wrong player (other than yourself); or (c) send one card to the wrong player and flip that same card up while doing so. Super-drop timing: The final version of Super Klutz's wording creates some timing issues and ambiguities with a variety of different effects such as Architect, Fungus, Judge, Merchant, Pirate, and Void. (For example, this flare was not meant to extract your losing ships out of the fungoid stacks that just captured them if Fungus got to go first, but the wording as printed unfortunately seems to imply that.) The original intent was that letting Klutz pick up his losing ships was simply another "instead of going to the warp" effect, with the Timing Conflicts rule breaking any ties that might arise. If somebody like Fungus or Void gets to those ships first, then Klutz can't use his flare. But if Super Klutz can go early enough, then it's too late for the ship-grabbers to get him; Klutz's losing ships are now momentarily "in limbo" while he waits for the other ships in the encounter to get repositioned/resolved. Then he does his drop. Only after Klutz's drop do any true end-of-encounter effects take place, such as judicial fiats, architectural tower-building, Wild Tyrant punishing everyone who lost ships, and so on. Not a smart-bomb: It was never the intention for Super Klutz to send to the warp all ships everywhere that are not on planets. Those that were researching tech cards, chilling on alien sheets, etc. remain where they are (unless they get knocked onto a planet, of course). Only ships that bounce away from a planet without also ending up on a planet are lost.
Edited to clarify the design intent for the the wild and super flares.
[q="Klutz (Yellow)"]Fumbles Cards and Ships

You have the power of Clumsiness. Whenever you draw more than one card from the deck (including when you are dealt your starting hand), use this power to drop one or two of the drawn cards. The dropped cards are discarded without replacement.

Whenever you place more than one of your ships on the same planet, use this power to examine any one other ship on a planet in the same system next to the planet you are placing ships on. Then drop it. The dropped ship goes to the warp.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Klutzes are described by their Cosmic neighbors as being all thumbs, and this is meant quite literally. Possessing no fingers and only marginally opposable thumblets, it is a wonder they can even tie their own podpads. Klutz reproduction is thus hypothesized to occur via a phenomenon that has come to be called "improbably fortunate collisions."

Wild: For the rest of this encounter, each time another player should draw more than one card from the deck, you may deal out that player's cards. Deal one card faceup to that player, deal one card to the wrong opponent, or do both (with the same card or two different ones).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As a losing main player or ally, instead of sending your losing ships to the warp you may pick them up. After the other ships are resolved, drop yours as a group from a height of one foot above the targeted planet. All players' ships that end up touching or overlapping any planets stay on those planets. Ships that bounce away from all planets go to the warp.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Laser: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Jack Reda, wild flare by Warren Denning, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Retooled Gameplay: Eon's Laser forced the opponent to play one of his encounter cards completely at random. Eon's Wild Laser was completely different: it forced the opponent to play an encounter card before inviting allies.
[q="Laser (Green)"]Blinds Opponent to Part of Hand

You have the power to Blind. As a main player, before allies are invited, use this power. If your opponent will need to draw a new hand to obtain encounter cards, he or she does so now. Then, you select at random a number of cards in his or her hand (without looking at them) up to the number of ships he or she has in the encounter. Your opponent must set the selected cards aside for the rest of the encounter.

If your opponent has no encounter cards after being blinded, he or she loses the encounter. Otherwise, the encounter proceeds normally. At the end of the encounter, your opponent retrieves the cards that were set aside.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Alliance)

Descended from an ancient sun-worshipping cult, the modern Lasers have learned to focus stellar power accurately enough to bedazzle any opposition. They have now embarked on a plan to spread confusion and fear among their enemies, before stepping in to build a coherent Cosmos in their own image.

Wild: As a main player or ally, during the alliance phase, you may discard up to three cards from your hand. Select up to the same number of cards at random from any one player's hand (even your own). That player must set aside the chosen cards and cannot use them until the end of the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Alliance)

Super: You may use your power as an ally after alliances are formed, targeting either one of the main players.
(Ally Only) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Leviathan: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Ships in gate: According to designer Jack Reda, using a worldship is supposed to be instead of launching ships normally in the hyperspace gate. Ends successfully: The successful encounter decreed by Wild Leviathan is simply that: a success. It does not count as a "win" for the player or a "loss" for the opponent. Trading planets: When you play Wild Leviathan, you get to choose the two planets that are trading places (confirmed with Mr. Reda). Outcome leak: The text does not specify what happens to the worldship (and the ships on it) if there is a deal, a failure to deal, or a canceled encounter. Although players could reasonably be expected to return the planet home, the status of the ships on that planet (whether they remain, are lost to the warp, or are allowed to migrate to the targeted planet) is undefined in those situations.
Edited to implement the designer's intent that the worldship is sent instead of launching ships normally, to correct Wild Leviathan's prerequisite icon, to fix the attack bug and the launch bug, and to define what happens to the worldship (and the ships on it) if there is a deal, a failure to deal, or a canceled encounter. Although players could reasonably be expected to return the planet home, the status of the ships on that planet (whether they remain, are lost to the warp, or are allowed to migrate to the targeted planet) is undefined in those situations.
[q="Leviathan (Yellow)"]May Attack with Planet

You have the power of Worldships. As the offense, after the hyperspace gate is aimed, instead of placing ships in the gate normally you may use this power to choose one of your home planets that has no other players' ships on it and place that planet on the gate as a worldship. Any ships you have on the worldship are normal offensive ships in the encounter. The worldship is not a ship but adds 20 to your total after encounter cards are revealed. If you lose the encounter, all ships on the worldship are sent to the warp. If you win, you may leave up to four of your ships from the worldship behind on the targeted planet. In any case, the worldship then returns to your home system with any ships that are still on it.
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Launch)

Immense and powerful creatures, the Leviathans consumed every resource on their own worlds until they themselves became like planets. The Leviathan fleets, now stationed within the fleshy folds of their masters, scout out new worlds for the Leviathans to envelop. The sight of a world-sized entity gating in through hyperspace often causes madness and hysteria on the targeted planet, but it doesn't last long.

Wild: As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may trade one home planet with the defense. Your planet moves to the defense's home system and vice versa. The encounter immediately ends successfully. Give this flare to the Leviathan after use (or discard it, if the Leviathan isn't playing).
(Offense Only) (Destiny)

Super: Your worldship may contain any ships except the defense's ships. Other players' ships on your worldship count toward your total and those players are automatically allied with you for this encounter, but they may not send additional ships and do not receive a colony if you win.
(Offense Only) (Launch)
[/q]
:Lightning: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Extra Encounter: Lightning does not provide for a free hand refresh, so the extra-encounter effect can be used only if you already have an encounter card in your hand.
Edited to clarify that Wild Lightning draws cards from the cosmic deck.
[q="Lightning (Yellow)"]Gains and Takes Away Encounters

You have the power of Speed. Each time any other player begins a second encounter during his or her turn, use this power to add a token to this sheet.

After the end of any encounter (even your own), you may discard three tokens from this sheet to immediately have one encounter. Afterwards, play resumes from where it left off.

At the start of a player's second encounter, you may discard two tokens from this sheet to immediately end the encounter.
(Not Offense) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

The Lightning live out their lives in a matter of hours. They move so fast that the rest of the Universe seems to act in slow motion to them. More than one alien race has sneered at the short lifespan of the Lightning, only to find themselves taken over in a flash.

Wild: When any other player begins a second encounter during his or her turn, you may draw three cards from the deck.
(Not Offense) (Regroup)

Super: When you use your power, you may add two tokens to your sheet instead of one.
(Not Offense) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Lizard: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Jon Gon (as Droid), illustrated by Brynn Metheney.
Retooled Gameplay: Jon Gon's "Droid" did not include the alternate-win possibility; instead, if the player succeeded in "upgrading" all of his ships, he started a new cycle of upgrading back to the original color with with an additional +2 bonus. Jon Gon's Wild Droid was completely different: it allowed retrieving ships from the warp up to the number of one's winning ships in an encounter.
[q="Lizard (Green)"]Metamorphoses After Winning

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place all the ships of that color on this sheet. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Transmogrify. As a main player, after you win an encounter using any of your normal ships, use this power to morph those winning normal ships. Remove them from the game and replace them with an equal number from this sheet. Your morphed ships count as ships of your color, except that each one adds an extra +2 to your side's total when involved in an encounter as a main player or ally (even after this power is zapped or lost).

When you have no normal ships remaining in the game, you win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.

This power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

The Lizards' lifecycle comprises metamorphic stages not unlike those of other sentient reptilians. Due to their world's proximity to a neutron star, however, they have developed an additional hyper-metamorphism that is triggered only by extreme adrenal overload. Finding battle victories to be effective activation events, the Lizards now seek physical perfection through conquest.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an attack card, you may either double the values of all reinforcements you play after this flare or add one to the multiplier of a kicker you revealed as a main player.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may also morph two of your normal ships that are not involved in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Locust: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Repeatability: The fact that Super Locust says "once per encounter" (and the base power does not) implies that the base power can devour any number of appropriate planets each regroup phase. Sniveler: The player consensus is that Sniveler counts Locust's devoured planets when determining if he can whine about colonies, but those planets are not at risk; if Locust has no regular (ship-based) foreign colonies, then he is free to torpedo the vote on Sniveler with impunity. House rule: The general opinion on Locust seems to be that it is almost a non-power, since protecting foreign colonies from loss is only an occasional need, and Locust has to work pretty hard to even make it work. The revision suggested in green is an attempt to make this alien more viable. Design note: Early on, the alien image used for Locust briefly appeared on artist Felicia Cano's website labeled Berserker. The fact that this is the only Cano alien in Cosmic Incursion tends to suggest that Berserker was originally intended for inclusion in the base set.
[q="Locust (Yellow)"]Eats Planets When Alone

You have the power to Devour. At the start of any regroup phase, if you have a foreign colony on a planet by yourself (i.e., there are no other players' ships on the planet with you), use this power to devour the planet, removing it from the game and placing it on this sheet. Your ships on that planet return to your other colonies.

Each planet you have devoured counts as two foreign colonies toward victory for you, even if this power is later lost or stolen. If this power is stolen, devoured planets do not transfer with it.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

The Locusts recently swarmed out of their home system in a vast cloud of ships, searching for uninhabited planets that they could break down and consume to meet the ever-growing energy needs of their people. Needless to say, the other aliens are keeping a nervous eye on these destructive gluttons.

Wild: At the start of any regroup phase, you may send 4 of your ships to the warp to destroy a planet that is not in the Locust's home system, removing it from the game. Any ships on that planet are sent to the warp. Give this flare to the Locust after use (or discard it, if the Locust isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: Once per encounter, you may devour one foreign planet on which you have more total ships than all other players combined. All other players' ships on that planet are sent to the warp.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Loser: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Affected cards: Loser's requirement to play attack cards applies only to the main players' normal encounter cards, not to extra cards such as those of Deuce or Cavalry. If an upset Loser faces Magician or Wild Magician, playing at least one attack card satisfies this requirement. Compensation: If the winner of an upset encounter revealed a negotiate, he does not collect compensation because he did not lose the encounter and his ships were never sent to the warp. Ties: During an upset, a tie ultimately causes the offense to win. Loser vs. Wild Loser: Playing the Wild flare after an upset does not cause both sides to win. Wild Loser short-circuits the encounter, jumping from the Planning phase to the Resolution phase; since the upset would have occurred during the Reveal phase but that phase gets skipped, the upset is prevented by Wild Loser and both players simply lose. (Another way of looking at it: An upset cannot affect the outcome until "after cards are revealed," but when Wild Loser is played we not only don't reveal any encounter cards, we don't even select them to begin with.)
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Loser could use its power in any encounter (without needing to be a main player); Mayfair added the main player restriction, which is also used in Cosmic Encounter Online. Considering original Loser's annoyance factor and its longtime dominant winning record, this change is probably a good one. Eon's Wild Loser was completely different: it forced the player receiving it to lose a colony and then eventually passed on, poison-like, to another player's hand.
[q="Loser (Green)"]Winner Loses and Loser Wins

You have the power of Upset. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to declare an upset. Once an upset has been declared, both players must play attack cards, if possible. Then, after cards are revealed, the winning side loses and the losing side wins. This occurs after all other game effects are resolved (such as the Human's power being zapped).
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

The enigmatic Losers have proven to be quite cunning in battle. Strengths become weaknesses and weaknesses strengths as the glassy-eyed Loser shows its opponents that nice guys finish first.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may declare that both sides lose, sending all involved ships to the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: You may wait until after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed to declare an upset. When you do so, you and your opponent are not required to play attack cards.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Love: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to fix incorrect comma and clarify that Love keeps the collected cards.
[q="Love (Yellow)"]Makes the Cosmos Go 'Round

You have the power of Joy. At the start of your turn, use this power. Choose and discard one card from your hand. Every other player, in clockwise order, may then choose and discard one card from his or her hand. If he or she discards the same type as you (attack, negotiate, artifact, etc.), that player may release all of his or her ships from the warp back to colonies.

If all players discard the same type of card as you, you collect all of the discarded cards (including yours) and add them to your hand. If one or more other players do not discard a card matching the type you discarded, you may release all of your ships from the warp and use them to establish a foreign colony in the system of one of those players.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

A maternalistic and physically imposing race, the Love used to be enveloped in rage and self-loathing. In their darkest hour, the Love began to see that simple acts of joy could become contagious; all that was needed was for one race to take the first step toward a happier existence.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may ask your opponent to discard one card at random from his or her hand. If he or she does, you may take the card; if he or she does not, you receive one reward.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: Instead of discarding a card to use your power, you may show the card to the other players and then return it to your hand.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)
[/q]
:Lunatic: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Clarification: Lunatic makes his decision before any other players accept or decline invitations. (Main players precede non-main players under the Timing Conflicts rule, and if Lunatic had been intended to go last then the standard timing phrase "after alliances are formed" would have been used instead.)
Edited to allow Wild Lunatic to access the reward deck.
[q="Lunatic (Yellow)"]Allies Against Self

You have the power of Insanity. As a main player, after allies are invited, you may use this power to ally against yourself without being invited. Your ships on the losing side are sent to the warp as usual, while your ships on the winning side receive whatever they would normally receive for winning, such as rewards or a colony on the targeted planet.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Not known for their rational behavior, the Lunatics have existed thus far by being on the winning side of every battle in some form or another.

Wild: For each reward you receive, you may both draw a card and retrieve a ship from the warp. You do not have to choose one or the other.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: When not a main player, you may ally with both sides of an encounter, if invited by both main players.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Machine: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: The FAQ states that if a player draws a new hand because of Wild Machine, the flare sits on the table while he discards his hand and draws a new one, and then returns to his (new) hand. This constitutes errata even though it is not labeled as such (as written, the flare would be played during the Resolution phase and returned to the player's hand immediately, having scheduled a requirement to draw cards in the next enconter if needed). Tech: As stated in the rulebook under the Technology variant, Machine may forego his second or later encounter in order to get a new tech card (as long as he is eligible to do so, meaning he must still have an encounter card in hand). This ends his turn because his power to continue works after having an encounter, not after drawing tech (and also because drawing tech has no Resolution phase). This principle would seem to apply to other encounter-adding game effects as well, such as Infinity Drive and Wild Machine. In the case of Wild Machine, the player would still need an encounter card in hand to convert the encounter to a tech draw because the hand refresh allowed by the flare would not occur until after the encounter had started.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Machine did not require that Machine "complete" his encounter in order to continue his turn; FFG's rewrite (probably unintentionally) implies that Machine cannot use his power if an encounter ends prematurely. Eon's Wild Machine was completely different: it forced the opponent to "program" the encounter cards in his hand in a specific sequence to be followed until drawing a new hand. FFG wisely abandoned that potential rulings nightmare in favor of a more conventional approach for the Wild effect.
Edited to clarify that Machine's power can be used multiple times per turn, to make Wild Machine work correctly with failed deals and to implement the FAQ erratum.
[q="Machine (Red)"]Can Continue Turn

You have the power of Continuity. Your turn is not limited to two encounters. After completing each of your encounters (whether successful or not), you may use this power to have another encounter as long as you have at least one encounter card left in your hand.
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

A race long lost to antiquity had the foresight to construct a mammoth Machine in the core of their planet. Pouring all their knowledge and ambition into its memory banks, they programmed it with this mandate: "Top priority... expand control, never cease... eliminate opposition, never cease... achieve mastery, never cease..."

Wild: As the offense, you may have a second encounter even if your first encounter was not successful or you are out of encounter cards. If you have no encounter cards left, set this flare aside, draw a new hand at the start of your second encounter, and then return this flare to your hand.
(Offense Only) (Resolution)

Super: During your regroup phase, you may draw a card from the deck instead of retrieving a ship from the warp.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Macron: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Errata: Power reflects official FAQ errata and second printing changes (shown in blue). Macron's revision history is complicated; see Appendix B for more information.
Retooled gameplay: Macron's ships under FFG are worth twice as much for compensation/rewards as they were under Eon, and the new power text pinpoints specific windows during which the power can be zapped. Eon's Wild Macron was completely different: it provided a limited Amoeba-like effect.
Edited to clarify interactions with game effects like Anti-Matter and Virus, to add missing timing indicators, to fix Wild Macron's main player bug, to fix Super Macron's launch bug and defensive ally bug, and for terminology. See Appendix B for Macron's full revision history.
[q="Macron (based on FAQ errata) (Green)"]Each Ship is Worth 4

You have the power of Mass. As the offense or an ally, use this power when sending ships into the encounter. You may send only one ship.

As a main player or ally, use this power after encounter cards are revealed. Each of your ships counts as 4 toward your side's total instead of 1.

When collecting compensation or rewards, each of your ships is worth two ships.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Launch) (Alliance) (Reveal)

Beginning life on a gargantuan planet, the Macrons accustomed themselves to tremendous atmospheric and gravitational forces. Power comes so naturally to them that they scoff at the fragile intelligences they crush on their way to universal dominance.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after your side reveals an attack card, you may add 1 to your side's total for each ship you have in the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: As the offense or an ally, you may send up to four ships into the encounter.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Launch) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Magician: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Bruno Faidutti, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Early play: If Magician is required to play his card early (say because of Wild Magician), the player consensus is that he must do so. He then still uses his power, but may not change the card he has already played. House rule: The printed Do Not Use restriction is easily overcome by handling Oracle in the same way as the Wild Magician flare. Magician plays a card face up, then Oracle plays two cards, then Magician adds one of them to his hand (without changing his own encounter card). Historical note: This power was apparently intended as a replacement for Laser, which is reported to be disliked by FFG designer Kevin Wilson. Reversed edit: See Cosmodex reversals.
Edited to move the timing to the correct "subphase," to resolve the stalemate between Magician and Wild Magician while simultaneously eliminating the Do Not Use conflict with Oracle, to add missing gender-neutral language, and to clarify that Wild Magician's hand refresh is there to enable the flare (not replace its normal function).
[q="Magician (Red)"]Steals Card, Confounds Opponent

You have the power of Prestidigitation. As a main player, when encounter cards are to be selected, use this power to force your opponent to play two encounter cards facedown. Choose one of the two cards at random and add it to your hand. Then, play an encounter card from your hand normally (even the card you just took). Your opponent must play the card you didn't choose as his or her encounter card. The rest of the encounter is resolved as usual.

If another game effect requires you to play your card first (e.g., Oracle, Wild Magician), you must do so. You then still use this power, but may not change the card you played.

If your opponent has only one encounter card left in hand (and proves it by showing you his or her hand except for the encounter card), this power has no effect.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Planning)

Lacking any natural weapons with which to defend themselves, the Magicians had to use their keen intellect to survive. Confusing and confounding their enemies became second nature to the wily Magicians. Indeed, many a would-be Cosmic conqueror has found occasion to curse the day that the Magicians swindled a visiting alien out of his spaceship and soared out into the Cosmos.

Wild: As a main player, when encounter cards are to be selected, you may force your opponent to play three encounter cards facedown. Shuffle these cards around on the table. Your opponent chooses one of the facedown cards at random, which he or she then plays, returning the other two to his or her hand. If your opponent has fewer than three encounter cards, he or she first discards his or her hand and draws a new one.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: When using your power, you may turn one of your opponent's two cards faceup before choosing. Choose either the faceup or facedown card and take it. Your opponent plays the card you did not choose, as usual.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Masochist: Alien power, base set, designed by Matt Stone, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Noteworthy interactions: Masochist is essentially rendered an anti-power by a single use of Mobius Tubes if it isn't zapped, and is perhaps just as vulnerable to Rifts which, although they generally target fewer ships, have no counter-card. House rule: Healer is such a devastating force that many players have suggested that Masochist really should have a "Do Not Use with Healer" restriction. Tech abuse: Masochist particularly likes having tech in the game, and can speed victory by aggressively researching a tech (other than Coldsleep Ship) until he has no colonies, then completing the tech and sending his last ships to the warp.
Retooled gameplay: Stone's Masochist specifically exempted itself from Schizoid's alternate win conditions. Stone's Wild Masochist was completely different: it required a player to lose a colony when the flare first entered his hand, then had that player eventually give the flare to someone else to continue the cycle of destruction. Stone's Super Masochist was completely different: it let the Masochist send six of his ships to the warp. Historical note: Masochist's power is similar to Eon's Warp Factor moon, which let a player win the game if he had 19 ships in the warp.
Edited to add the Healer restriction and to fix Wild Masochist's leak that blocks the offense from loading the gate if he has ships that are not lost/captured/removed but are in some other state that prevents them from being usable, such as researching tech.
[q="Masochist (Red)"]Tries to Lose Own Ships

You have the power to Hurt Yourself. At the start of any regroup phase (before the offense retrieves a ship from the warp), use this power to win the game if you have lost all of your ships. Lost ships include those in the warp, those removed from the game, and those captured by other players.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies, and you may still win the game via the normal method.
Do Not Use with Healer
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

The Masochists suffer from a neurological disorder where they derive pleasure from self-flagellation. However, some are beginning to wonder if it's really a religious ritual to bring forth their dominance in the Universe.

Wild: During any regroup phase, you may choose a player other than the offense. That player retrieves a ship from the warp instead of the offense. You may not use this flare if the offense would then be unable to place a ship in the hyperspace gate.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: During your regroup phase, you may choose one of your ships in the warp and remove it from the game instead of retrieving it as usual.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Maven: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Maven (Red)"]Is Always Right

You have the power to Be Right. If you are not a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to take all facedown cards played during the planning phase and stack them on this sheet without looking at them. Then proceed to the reveal phase and discard an attack or negotiate card from your hand to declare the outcome of the encounter. Discard an even-numbered attack card to declare that the offense wins. Discard an odd-numbered attack card to declare that the defense wins. Discard a negotiate card to declare that the main players will try to make a deal. You may not use this power if you do not have an attack or negotiate card to discard.

Cards you stack on this sheet are kept facedown until the appropriate deck is reshuffled, at which point they are reshuffled with that deck.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Optional) (Planning)

Tired of offering corrections to lesser species, the Mavens have decided to skip the middle-alien, as it were, and hasten to the endgame, declaring correct outcomes in a matter of seconds.

Wild: When you are not involved in an encounter, after encounter cards are revealed, you may "correct" any encounter's outcome by adding 10 to either side's total. Give this flare to the Maven after use (or discard it, if the Maven isn't playing).
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, instead of placing cards on your alien sheet, you may add them all to your hand.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Planning)
[/q]

:Mercenary: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Reverse Rewards: When the Reverse Rewards hazard is in effect, Mercenary receives double rewards if he is an offensive ally (and of course no rewards if he is a defensive ally). Timing clarification: Super Mercenary does not have to be played before cards are drawn; thus if Mercenary draws his own flare as a reward, he can play it to discard any of the other cards drawn. Historical note: Wild Mercenary is essentially Eon's Victory Boon edict.
[q="Mercenary (Green)"]Always Rewarded for Winning

You have the power of Bounty Hunting. As a main player or offensive ally, after your side wins an encounter, use this power to receive rewards equal to the number of ships you had in the encounter. This is in addition to any other benefits you receive normally for winning the encounter.
(Main Player or Offensive Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Originally created by another race to serve as police, the robotic Mercenaries were designed to be exert trackers and warriors. However, a terrible plague wiped out their masters and, left alone for eons, the Mercenaries gradually became self-aware. Vowing that they would never be used as slaves again, the Mercenaries made their way out into the Cosmos, always being careful to exact a price for their services.

Wild: As the defense, when you win an encounter, you may receive rewards equal to the number of ships you had in the encounter.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: When drawing cards for rewards, you may discard any or all of them after looking at the cards.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Merchant: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Jason Steinhurst, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Timing: If you use Super Merchant as a hired ship, you cannot then play it in that encounter because it is not actually in your hand at time you would need to play it. Capturing leak: There are three standard negative outcomes for ships: going to the warp, being removed from the game, and being captured. By leaving out any mention of capturing, the power technically sends captured ships back to the Merchant's hand rather than discarding them, which is highly counterintuitive (and probably not what was intended).
Edited to plug the capturing leak.
[q="Merchant (Yellow)"]Plays Cards as Extra Ships

You have the power to Hire. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, if you have at least one ship in the encounter, you may use this power to play one or more cards facedown from your hand as hired ships. These cards are treated as extra ships you have in the encounter and may be played in addition to your normal maximum of 4 ships as the offense or an ally. Hired ships cannot be played for their card effect and are not part of your hand. Other players may not look at or draw hired ships. Any hired ship that goes to the warp, is captured, or is removed from the game is discarded. Otherwise, hired ships become normal cards again and return to your hand at the end of the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Hailing from a world incredibly rich in natural resources, the Merchants achieved star travel early in their history thanks to a crew of intergalactic mercenaries who crash-landed on their planet. Since then, the Merchants have frequently used their wealth and natural charisma to hire other races to do their fighting for them.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add 1 to your side's total for each card in your hand, plus this flare.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may replace any or all hired ships that survive the encounter with any ships you have in the warp on a 1-for-1 basis. Discard the cards representing the replaced hired ships.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Mesmer: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Future Pastimes, Super flare by Jefferson Krogh and Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Scope: Mesmer can name any official artifact card that exists in this edition of Cosmic Encounter, even if it's part of a reward deck that is not in the current game.
Retooled Gameplay: Eon's Super Mesmer was completely different: it allowed playing each wild flare in your hand as though it were any wild flare you could name.
[q="Mesmer (Red)"]Can Change Own Artifacts

You have the power of Mass Hypnosis. You may use this power to play any artifact card from your hand as though it were any artifact card you name. If you are zapped you return the card to your hand, but may then play it normally, for its original printed effect, if appropriate.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Raised in a society where grace and physical charm are equated with success, the unsightly Mesmers have as a defense developed the power to entrance all who might gaze upon them. Now, accomplished performers, the Mesmers can bedazzle a crowd into believing anything. Only long after the glow has faded do the most astute begin to wonder how much was real, and how much imagined.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal an attack card with a value lower than 10, you may change it into a negotiate card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may use your power to play any non-encounter card from your hand as though it were any artifact card.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Mimic: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Kevin Wilson and Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Duplicated effects: A flare returning to its owner's hand after use is a standard rule for the card type, and not specifically one of the "effects" of each flare; thus, Wild Mimic does not steal the flare it is duplicating. On the other hand, if a particular flare says to give it to someone else after use, this is an effect of that flare. In most cases this distinction will be moot (for example, Wild Disease is given to Disease or discarded, and then your duplication redundantly causes it to be given or discarded to the same person or discard pile). However, since Wild Reincarnator and Wild Changeling are given to whichever player the flare affected, then your duplicate use of the card can indeed change who ends up holding it.
[q="Mimic (Yellow)"]Copies Opponent's Hand Size

You have the power to Imitate. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, use this power. If your opponent has more cards in hand than you, draw cards from the deck until you have just as many cards in your hand. If your opponent has fewer cards in hand than you, discard cards of your choice until you have just as few cards in your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Planning)

Evolving from a small insectoid creature that had an incredible gift for imitating the appearance of the other beings on their homeworld, the Mimics have come to be known as some of the greatest copycats in the Cosmos. Watching a Mimic change form is an eye-watering process, a bit like watching a giant, invisible sculptor at work. The Mimics hope that their ability to blend in throughout the Cosmos will allow them to ascend to Cosmic dominance, but only time will tell.

Wild: You may duplicate the effects of a wild flare or artifact card that another player just played. The effects take place as though you had played the card yourself. Give this flare to the Mimic after use (or discard it, if the Mimic isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When using your power, you may draw up to or discard down to eight cards instead of your opponent's actual hand size.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Mind: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Errata: Wild Mind reflects official FAQ errata (shown in blue). Reward deck: The player consensus is that Wild Mind does not activate when another player draws from the reward deck.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Mind was broader; it could be used after alliances ("any time before cards are played") and did not restrict the player from telling others what he saw. Eon's Wild Mind was completely different: it allowed a player to preview all cards in the deck without shuffling.
Edited to fix Wild Mind's incorrect prerequisite and timing bars.
[q="Mind (based on FAQ errata) (Yellow)"]Sees Other Players' Hands

You have the power of Knowledge. Before allies are invited, you may use this power to look at the entire hand of one of the main players. If you are a main player, you may look at your opponent's hand. You may not tell any other players what cards you see in a player's hand using this power.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

Springing forth on a triple star system subject to constant energy fluxes, the Mind thrives on shifting wave pulses, ultraviolet rays, and gamma-release explosions. Extreme sensitivity to potentialities has enabled it to view with wisdom (and some skepticism) the threats of its Cosmic competitors.

Wild: When another player draws a card from the deck, you may use this flare. For the rest of this encounter, each time that player must draw a card from the deck, you may draw it instead, look at it, and then give it to him or her. You may not share this information with the other players.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When you are not a main player, using your power allows you to look at the hands of both main players.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Mirage: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Cedric Chin (as Alexander), illustrated by Brynn Metheney.
Retooled Gameplay: Alexander applied only to whomever was the defense, and did not offer a choice of colonies; it automatically specified the minimum for the opponent or the maximum for itself. Chin's Wild Alexander was completely different: it allowed exchanging one's ships in the encounter with one's ships on any colony. Super Alexander affected all allies, setting each one's ship count to that of his smallest colony.
[q="Mirage (Green)"]Changes Number of Ships Involved

You have the power of Delusion. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to choose any one of your colonies and any one of your opponent's colonies. Encounter totals are calculated as though the main players' ships on the chosen colonies were involved instead of their actual ships in the encounter. Allies' ships count toward the totals normally.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Beings of inconstant mass, the Mirage willfully change their form to mislead adversaries about their actual numerical strength. The field of distortion surrounding the Mirage is so powerful, those venturing within it are unable to precisely determine their own appearance. Great fleets have been deluded into thinking they were suddenly outnumbered, and those captains able to survive become forever wary of the misshapen ripples of space seen in the distance.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may play one negotiate card from your hand as though it were a reinforcement +3.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may also choose one colony of any one ally to count toward that side's encounter total instead of his or her actual ships in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Mirror: Alien power, base set, designed by Matt Stone, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Negative attacks: Mirror's effect is not a mathematical operation; it simply swaps two digits. Thus the negative attack cards (in the Cosmic Incursion reward deck) don't become positive, they just get a whole lot more negative (–10, –40, –70). Double digits: This power is one of the reasons FFG used leading zeroes on low-value attack cards so they would have double digits (an excellent feature of this edition). Kevin Wilson discusses this just a bit more in the link below.
Retooled gameplay: Stone's Wild Mirror was completely different: it allowed a player to win by playing a compromise (negotiate) card, but required paying consolation. Mayfair's Super Mirror was different; it allowed the reversal to be called after attack cards were revealed.
[q="Mirror (Yellow)"]Swaps Digits on Attack Cards

You have the power of Reversal. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to call for a reversal. If one or both players reveal attack cards, this changes the value of those cards by reversing their digits. For example, this would make an attack 15 into a 51, a 20 into an 02, and an 08 into an 80. Resolve the encounter using these reversed values.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Springing from a world with such a high surface silver content that everything reflected off everything else, the Mirrors adapted to the difficulty of separating mirror images from reality. They also developed an inner symmetry that confounds their opponents across the Cosmos.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may change your encounter card into a duplicate of your opponent's encounter card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When declaring a reversal, you may declare that it will affect only your card or your opponent's card.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Miser: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. The hoard: FFG's language choices imply, and Kevin Wilson has ruled, that the hoard is not actually a hand. This means, among other things, that the hoard is not subject to effects that target hands, such as a cosmic quake, and that an encounter card in the hoard is not sufficient to allow Miser to begin a second encounter (which was also specifically ruled by Mr. Wilson). The hoard is also not subject to the rules for hand refresh, and thus when it's out of encounter cards you may discard it to draw a new one at any time.
Retooled gameplay: FFG Miser specifically allows the player to choose which starting hand will be the hoard. Eon Miser protected the hoard from "loss of cards because of other powers, Edicts, or consolation," whereas FFG Miser protects the hoard only from its cards being looked at or drawn. The difference, then, is that Eon hoards were vulnerable to all flare-based effects but could not be harmed by forced discarding from non-flares, while FFG hoards can experience forced discarding from any kind of game component (as long as that component is not limited to targeting hands, since the hoard is not a hand). Eon was clear about getting a new hoard using the normal hand-drawing rules, but FFG seems to give the hoard its own (relatively unrestricted) method for refresh rather than link it to the normal hand-drawing rules. Eon's Wild Miser was completely different: it allowed a player to win the game with one base fewer than the number normally required.
[q="Miser (Green)"]Gets Second Hand

Game Setup: You are dealt two separate eight-card hands. Look at them and choose one to be your "hoard." Place it facedown on this sheet.

You have the power to Hoard. Whenever you wish to play a card, you may use this power to play a card from your hoard instead of your normal hand. You may not add cards you gain to your hoard, and other players may not look at or draw cards from your hoard. If there are no encounter cards left in your hoard, you may show it, then discard it and get a new eight-card hoard. Cards played from your hoard which should return to your hand must return to your hoard instead.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Barely eking out a living on their shriveled moon, the Misers for generations secreted away their small annual surplus. But as the hoard grew, so did their greed, until now they prepare to risk their holdings for greater Cosmic booty.

Wild: When you draw a new hand or another player takes compensation from you, you may place this card and two others facedown in front of you until afterwards. If compensation is being taken from you, the facedown cards may not be taken. If drawing a new hand, you receive a full hand in addition to the facedown cards.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: At the start of your encounter, you may draw one card from the deck and add it to your hoard.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Mite: Alien power, base set, designed by Cosmic Encounter Online, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Ends successfully: The successful encounter decreed by Mite is simply that: a success. It does not count as a "win" for the player or a "loss" for the opponent. Timing: The combination of a "before allies are invited" clause and a (Launch) icon doesn't really make sense. This allows Mite to use his power before launching his ships in the hyperspace gate, and arguably even before aiming the gate, which surely could not have been the intention. One possible resolution would be changing the Launch icon to (Alliance) on both the base power and the Super flare, but the Cosmodex opts to keep the power's timing phase the same and just prevent the offense from using it too early. Noteworthy interaction: Mite essentially makes Genius a non-power. Relabeling: In Cosmic Encounter Online, instead of the "power to Bluster" Mite has the "power to cut down to size." Neither phrase seems to have a lot to do with the abilities of a mite, but FFG's revision is a welcome change that makes the power feel more like it fits into the game's longstanding history of one- and two-word power tags. FFG's changes to the history are a mixed bag: although the perspective and tense strayed from the cosmic standard, the overall length reduction is a welcome relief from the online edition's long and awkward stories for its newer aliens. Historical note: Although some players consider Mite to be a replacement for Wrack, the Cosmodex sees enough differences between the two (dealmaking, ship assassination, and the chance of a backfire loss, among others) to believe that there could still be room in the Cosmos for Wrack.
Edited to fix the timing leak that allows early blustering.
[q="Mite (Yellow)"]Demands Colony or Loss of Cards

You have the power to Bluster. As the offense, after you launch ships in the hyperspace gate, if the defense has more than three cards in hand, use this power to bluster. The defense must either discard down to three cards at random or let you establish a colony on the targeted world. If the defense gives you a colony, land any ships you have in the hyperspace gate on the targeted planet and the encounter immediately ends successfully. If the defense discards down to three cards at random, the encounter continues normally.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Launch)

Long stigmatized by others as being pests, swarms of microscopic Mites learned to use their omnipresence to advance their collective dream of being accepted and respected in the Cosmic community.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, if your opponent has more ships allied with him- or herself than you have allied with yourself, you may force all allied ships to return to their colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: When you use your power, you may take any cards your opponent discards as a result, look at them, and add any or all of them to your hand, discarding the ones you don't want.
(Offense Only) (Launch)
[/q]
:Moocher: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Moocher has 5 couch tokens. Treated as planets: Couches can be stolen by The Claw, moved by Wild Leviathan, destroyed by the Omega Missile, and so on, but since they are not normal player-color planets they cannot be merged by the Architect.
[q="Moocher (Yellow)"]Intrudes

You have the power to Barge In. If you lose or fail to deal on the first encounter of your turn, after the encounter you may use this power. Place any empty or unused couch token in any system other than the one in which you lost. Then place one to four of your ships on it from your colonies. Couches are treated as planets in the system where they now exist.

When the offense does not invite you to ally and you have any couch colonies in his or her system, you may use this power to call "shotgun!" The offense must either let you ally with 1 to 4 ships from those couch colonies, or let you take a card at random from his or her hand.
(Not Defense or Ally) (Optional) (Alliance) (Resolution)

"Hey, we both have multiple eyes. I must be your long lost third nephew once removed."

Wild: After drawing destiny for your first encounter, you may mooch a colony on an empty planet in the defense's system using your ships from any colonies, ending your turn. Give this flare to the Moocher after use (or discard it, if the Moocher isn't playing).
(Offense Only) (Destiny)

Super: You may call "shotgun!" on either the offense or the defense. If that main player still refuses to let you ally, you may take two cards from his or her hand instead of one.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Mouth: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: Do the other players get to see which cards are removed from the game? If so, those with good memories can deduce which card Mouth is keeping. (Of course, those with a good understanding of the game can probably often predict this anyway.)
[q="Mouth (Red)"]Gobbles Up Cards

You have the power to Gobble. As a main player, after alliances are formed, whenever a card would be placed in the discard pile by the opposing main player or one of that player's allies, use this power to gobble up the card instead. When you gobble up a card, it is placed facedown on this sheet.

At the end of the resolution phase, if there are five or more cards on this sheet, use this power to belch one of those cards back up, placing it in your hand. The rest of the cards on this sheet are removed from the game.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Alliance) (Planning) (Reveal) (Resolution)

Although considered more of an annoyance than a genuine threat, the Mouth can devastate the unwary with its constant eating. Anything within reach of a Mouth will likely be swallowed whole in the blink of an eye. Objects too large for a single bite will be systematically devoured to satisfy its voracious hunger.

Wild: As a main player, after an artifact or reinforcement card is played by your opponent and its effects have been resolved, you may take that card and add it to your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may replace either main player's encounter card with one encounter card on your sheet or one card you had previously removed from the game. Discard the replaced card.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Muckraker: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by the fans, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Muckraker (Yellow)"]Gets Allies Thrown Out

You have the power to Slander. As a main player or ally, at the start of the resolution phase, you may use this power to discard one card from your hand and accuse any or all winning allies of subversive intent. Each accused ally may bribe you to cancel your accusation against him or her by giving you, from his or her hand, any non-encounter card or a card of the same type (attack, negotiate, etc.) as the one you discarded. Attack card bribes must have a higher value than the attack card you discarded. Accused allies who cannot or do not bribe you must return their ships to their other colonies, and receive no rewards, colonies, or other benefits of winning the encounter.

If you are an ally and your side won, the main player on your side may exempt any or all allies from this power. You may not accuse yourself.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

With tongues of silver and hearts of arsenic, the Muckrakers are natural soapbox politicians, never missing an opportunity to sow seeds of discord if it suits their aims. Presenting themselves as watchmen dedicated to protecting their neighbors from flim-flam artists, they secretly scheme to remove those who would stand in their way.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may force one ally on either side to leave the encounter, returning his or her ships to any of his or her colonies.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may accuse the winning main player in addition to, or instead of, any winning allies. (You still may not accuse yourself.)
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Multitude: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to eliminate awkward redundancy.
[q="Multitude (Green)"]Grows Exponentially

You have the power of Exponentiation. Whenever there are no cosmic tokens on this sheet, place one on the ×1 exponential growth factor.

Whenever your color or any special destiny card is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to double your exponential growth factor (by moving the token from ×1 to ×2, from ×2 to ×4, etc.).

Whenever a wild destiny card is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to reset your exponential growth factor to ×1.

As a main player or ally, the value of each of your ships participating in the encounter is multiplied by your exponential growth factor when counting toward your side's total.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Destiny)

After discovering secrets for regenerating individual members of their species, and finding that they were unwilling to make choices about which of them should not stay alive forever, the Multitude are now boiling out into space, seeking new places to live out their many lives.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may play this flare. The value of each of your ships in the encounter is multiplied by the number of cards in your hand (not counting this flare) when counting toward your side's total.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may multiply the value of your allies' ships by 2 when counting them toward your total.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Mutant: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Deals and allies: Although Wild Mutant looks like it lets you take cards from allies after a successful deal, it does not. When a deal situation arises, allies are sent away from the encounter in the reveal phase, before the dealmaking begins; so by the time this flare is playable in the resolution phase, there won't be any allies left. Super flare playability: Super Mutant's use of the phrase "before using your power" indicates only the flare's timing; it is not a requirement to subsequently use the power. Thus Mutant can play his Super regardless of whether he will be able, or even willing, to use his power afterwards. (To try to force the power use would lead to questions about such things as whether he can play the flare if it cannot even get his hand under eight cards, what happens if another effect immediately bumps him back up to eight, etc. Best to keep it simple.)
Retooled gameplay: Eon timed Mutant's card drawing to occur before encounter cards were played; FFG times it before inviting allies. Eon's Super Mutant was completely different: it allowed the player to discard his hand and cherry-pick a new hand from any cards in the deck, without shuffling.
[q="Mutant (Green)"]Maintains 8-Card Hand

You have the power to Regenerate. As a main player, before allies are invited, if you have fewer than eight cards you may use this power to refill your hand. Draw cards one at a time, at random, from any other player(s) and/or from the deck. Draw until you have a full hand of eight cards.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Evolving on a highly radioactive and unshielded moon, the protean Mutants quickly learned to augment their silicon-based heredity. Before long they began to control and accumulate key genetic codes from other life forms, stripping opponents of their most basic defenses in a Mutant drive to transform the Universe.

Wild: As a main player, if you win an encounter or make a deal, you may take one card at random from your opponent and each of his or her allies.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: As a main player, you may discard up to three cards from your hand before using your power to refill your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Nanny: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Nanny has 8 "consequence" essence cards. Note that half of these cards have a timeout that lasts for one encounter, while the other half have a timeout that lasts for an entire turn.
[q="Nanny (Yellow)"]Motivates

You have the power of Consequences. When you are not a main player, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to "motivate" one or both main players. To motivate a player, give him or her one negotiate card from your hand to add to his or her hand, and give him or her a consequence from your essence card cache to place faceup next to his or her alien sheet. If a motivated player reveals a negotiate card, carry out the incentive; the consequence card is returned to you and you receive one reward. If a motivated player does not reveal a negotiate card, carry out the punishment and leave the consequence card in place to mark the timeout.

A player in a timeout may not participate in the game in any way or communicate with other players, nor may other players communicate with the player in the timeout. If that player is the offense, his or her turn ends. If that player becomes the defense, the offense draws destiny again. At the end of the timeout, the player returns the consequence card to you. In any case where play cannot progress because of timeouts, all other players' consequence cards are returned to you.

Whenever one or more other players discard negotiate cards, you may use this power to retrieve one of those negotiate cards and add it to your hand. You play and discard negotiates normally.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Nannies are engaged in a time out campaign throughout the Cosmos.

Wild: When the offense is going to have a second encounter, you may cancel that encounter. Give this flare to the Nanny after use (or discard it, if the Nanny isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power as a main player, giving your opponent both a negotiate card and a consequence card.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Neighbor: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited to fix the main player bug.
[q="Neighbor (Green)"]Adds All Ships in System to Attack

You have the power of Community. As a main player or ally, after the main player on your side reveals an attack card, use this power to add one to your side's total for each ship you have in the targeted system that is not involved in the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

No race may have as strong a sense of community and working toward the common good as the Neighbor. While some races are secretive, solitary, or sensitive, the Neighbor is always interested in what the other races nearby are doing, and they are more than happy to lend another alien their technology or tools. Several times each year, they ritualistically come together in great masses to feast on food prepared by other Neighbors, and regale each other with anecdotes everyone has heard several times before.

Wild: As a winning defensive ally, if you earn defender rewards, you may add the number of ships the defense had involved in the encounter when calculating how many defender rewards you are entitled to.
(Defensive Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: When using your power as a main player, you may also add 1 to your total for each ship that is not involved in the encounter that each of your allies have in the targeted system.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Nightmare: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Nightmare has 10 "bad dream" essence cards. Missing timing phase: You may use this power not only when you don't get invited during the alliance phase, but also when you lose an encounter. Although encounters are actually won and lost in the reveal phase, many game effects that trigger on encounter outcomes actually wait until the resolution phase to have their effect. This was indeed the case with Nightmare during development of Cosmic Eons, but the Resolution icons were incorrectly removed shortly before the set was printed.
Edited to correct the base power and super flare by restoring the missing Resolution phase to the timing indicators.
[q="Nightmare (Red)"]Gives Bad Dreams

You have the power of Bad Dreams. Once per encounter, when a main player has declined to invite you to ally, or another player is on the winning side of an encounter when you are on the losing side, you may use this power to place a bad dream from your essence card cache facedown near that player. You cannot give a bad dream card to a player who already has one.

You may reveal a player's bad dream card at any time. That player reads the card and carries out its effects (if they apply). Revealed bad dream cards are returned to you.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Alliance) (Resolution)

"There are knowns – things we know. And unknowns. Meaning things we know we don't know. And unknown unknowns – things we are ignorant of not knowing." (Found in a journal on a backwater planet.)

Wild: When another player is establishing a colony on any planet, you may declare it to be a bad dream. Choose an empty planet or any planet where that player already has a colony. The ships land on that other planet instead. Give this flare to the Nightmare after use (or discard it, if the Nightmare isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When using your power to give a player a bad dream card, you may choose a player who already has one or more bad dream cards.
(As Any Player) (Alliance) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Observer: Alien power, base set, designed by Cedric Chin (as Safety), illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: The FAQ entry on Observer is confusing, but it appears to be trying to clarify that when Observer is an ally he must – during the Resolution phase – protect all of his ships, whether part of the encounter or not (and similarly must as a main player protect all of his allies' ships). This means that, as an ally, when Observer receives a grudge token he does not lose 1 or 4 ships to the warp but instead picks up the appropriate number of his ships and then places them back on any of his colonies.
Retooled gameplay: Chin's Wild Safety was completely different: it forced allies to send their winning ships to the warp in spite of getting their normal rewards (using other ships to gain the colony in the case of offensive winning allies). Chin's Super Safety was completely different: it allowed the player to protect his own ships or those of the main player he is allied with, filling in the "missing coverage" from the base power.
Edited to avoid implying that Observer works outside of the resolution phase, to fix the launch bug and the defensive ally bug, to fix the incorrect prerequisite bar, and to add the missing (Alliance) icon.
[q="Observer (Green)"]Allies Do Not Go to Warp

You have the power to Protect. As an ally, when you should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead return them to any of your colonies and keep using them.

As a main player, when any of your allies should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead allow your allies to return them to any of their colonies of their choice.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Seldom interfering in Cosmic affairs, the Observers have been around for millennia, simply watching the other alien races. With their advanced technology and strange abilities, the others were hesitant to draw them into their squabbles. Now, however, it seems that the Observers have decided that the time for action has come at last.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may allow each player who allied with you to draw one card from the deck.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: As the offense or an ally, when you send ships into the encounter, you may retrieve one ship from the warp to send. This does not allow you to exceed your normal limit of four ships in the encounter.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Launch) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Oligarch: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Oligarch has 5 "privilege" essence cards.
[q="Oligarch (Red)"]Gets Richer as Others Get Poorer

Game Setup: Take your 5 privileges as your essence card cache. You automatically start the game as the first player.

You have the power of Greed. Every time you draw a new hand of cards, including at the beginning of the game, draw one additional card.

You accumulate privileges up to the highest number of foreign colonies that has been reached by any player. Use this power whenever any one player has more foreign colonies than the number of your faceup privilege cards. Look through your essence card cache, choose one privilege, and play it faceup next to this sheet. If you are zapped, the privilege you attempted to play is removed from the game.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Overheard at the Oligarch's Elite Club Squash'em: "It's not enough to know that I'm controlling the Universe from my holodecks, it's that I also want to know that my 'friends' see their lives as immeasurably and permanently less successful than mine."

Wild: At the start of your turn, if you do not have more cards in hand than all other players, you may draw from the deck until you do (before returning this flare to your hand).
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: When another player should draw a new hand, you may deal the cards for that hand to yourself, choose one card from among them to keep, and give the rest to that player.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
:Oracle: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. FAQ ruling: When facing Oracle, Gambler must either play his card face up or use his power during the Planning phase to make a declaration about it before Oracle chooses an encounter card. Wild Oracle remains on the table waiting to resolve while the hands are mixed together; afterwards, it returns to the hand of whoever played it.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's version delayed Oracle's card play until what is now known as the Reveal phase; FFG's rewrite wisely avoids ruling complications by keeping the card plays in the Planning phase and still going through a normal Reveal phase (even though the opponent's "revelation" is perfunctory at that point). It's unfortunate they didn't apply their excellent wording improvements to Super Oracle as well (the incorrect use of the word "reveal" led them to wrongly use a (Reveal) icon instead of (Planning)).
Edited to move the timing to the correct "subphase," for agreement between base power and Super flare, to avoid implying that the faceup card is being "revealed" in the planning phase, to fix the defensive ally bug, for terminology, and to correct Super Oracle's timing indicator. (The Super flare must be used before Oracle plays his encounter card, so it can't wait until the Reveal phase. This error probably occurred because the flare was not revisited when the use of the base power was moved from Reveal to Planning. The opponent is not actually "revealing" his card yet, but rather he is playing it in such a way that the other players know what it is. In any event, it is clear from Oracle's base power that Super Oracle must make his choice during the Planning phase.)
[q="Oracle (Green)"]Foresees Opponent's Card

You have the power to Foresee. As a main player, when encounter cards are to be selected, use this power to force your opponent to play his or her encounter card faceup. Only after you have seen your opponent's card do you select and play your card.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Planning)

During millennia of civilization, the ancient Oracles developed perceptiveness about the intentions of others to uncanny lengths. While reluctant to test the outer limits of their vision, they find even short-range prescience has given them the reputation of great wisdom.

Wild: As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may mix your hand with that of your opponent, then take at random as many cards as you had in your hand, giving the rest to your opponent.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: As a main player, you may end an encounter after your opponent plays his or her card. Your opponent takes back his or her card, the offense's and allies' ships return to colonies, and play continues as if a deal had been made.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Outlaw: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Design note: Based on an early comment on Ms. Cano's deviantart page, it appears that Outlaw was originally called "Rustler" when it was sent to her for artwork.
[q="Outlaw (Green)"]Steals Cards from Opponents

You have the power to Waylay. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to take one card at random from your opponent and from each of his or her allies. Add those cards to your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

The Outlaws are rightly feared throughout the great expanses of space. They arrive in a fury of laser blasts, explosions, and angry threats. Their victims barely have time to react before the Outlaws have swept through a sector, pillaging and stealing loot as they go.

Wild: As an ally, if your side loses the encounter, you may take one card at random from the hand of any player on the winning side of the encounter.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: As the defense or a defensive ally, if your side loses the encounter, you may use this flare. Winning offensive allies must return their ships to any of their colonies instead of landing on the targeted planet.
(Defense or Defensive Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Pacifist: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: If Pacifist reveals a negotiate card and ends up losing to an attack card (for example, by being zapped or because Loser declared an upset and Pacifist had no attack cards), then Pacifist collects compensation normally. When Pacifist and Human are supposed to auto-win at the same time (Pacifist reveals a negotiate; Human reveals an attack and is zapped), use the Timing Conflicts rule.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Wild Pacifist was completely different: it allowed a player to block an opponent's second encounter of the turn. FFG's Super Pacifist wisely recasts the number of ships lost to the warp using modifiers (-2 and +2) rather than hard-coded values (1 and 5); this eliminates problems in situations with other game effects that also change the number of ships lost to the warp, such as Negotiate (Crooked Deal).
[q="Pacifist (Green)"]Wins with Negotiate Card

You have the power of Peace. As a main player, if you reveal a negotiate card and your opponent reveals an attack card, use this power to win the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

A simple but ungainly race, the Pacifists long ago learned how to turn the power of an opponent against him. Always ready to demonstrate the superiority of retreat in unbalancing an aggressor, the Pacifists now seek to bring the Universe to its knees by yielding at just the right moment.

Wild: As a main player, after you reveal a negotiate card and your opponent reveals an attack card, you may change your negotiate card into an attack 15.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When you fail to make a deal, you may lose 2 fewer ships to the warp while forcing your opponent to lose 2 extra ships to the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Pack Rat: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Collecting planets: For a planet to be "empty," it must have no ships on it. Any other special features, such as citadel cards, a space station, or a saboteur token, will remain with the planet as it joins and leaves Pack Rat's collection. Collecting tokens: Pack Rat cannot take so many tokens from another alien that he makes that alien's power "completely unusable" — but he can get close to that point. In most cases involving unique tokens, this means leaving the alien with at least one. It doesn't matter whether the tokens the alien still has are already in use; as long as they have not all been taken, the alien is, in principle, usable. Thus, for example, Pack Rat may hold one token, but not both, from Evil Twin or Yin-Yang. A few aliens, however, must be left with a minimum of two. Particle needs at least one matching pair, Joker needs two because of the way its refresh mechanism works (the last one to be used reactivates only those remaining on the sheet), and Saboteur must have at least one trap and a second token of either kind (otherwise his power would be useless once players know the identity of the tokens). The solitary tokens used by Sloth and Tourist are off limits. However, in spite of Multitude using only a single token, it actually can be taken because Multitude is immediately able to grab another one. Just don't expect him to be very anxious to have it back (and note that the text doesn't explain what to do upon return when he has two!). Anxiety tokens can be taken from Hypochondriac, but not other players; however, there's not much profit in doing so as it would increase Pack Rat's own anxiety. Similarly, taking "countdown" tokens from aliens like Chrysalis, Sycophant, and Tick-Tock is possible, but usually not advisable. Tokens that are never on (or understood to be on) their owner's alien sheet, such as those of Swindler, are off limits. Colony markers are not tokens at all (and wouldn't change how many foreign colonies someone has even if they were taken). Masochist may consider any of its ships held by Pack Rat to be captured. Rescue: If a ship ID is released by something like Ship Zap or Super Symbiote, return the associated object to its owner.
[q="Pack Rat (Yellow)"]Collects Objects

You have the power to Collect. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to take one "object" belonging to the other main player and place it on this sheet. That player must then give you one of his or her ships from a colony. Place it on top of the object as an owner ID. Collectible objects: a card at random from a hand, a ship from the warp, the top card from a set of essence cards, an empty planet from that player's system, a facedown, un-researched tech card, or a token on that player's alien sheet, including special tokens understood to be on the sheet, e.g. those of Fire Dancer, Grudge, or Particle. You cannot take a token if doing so would make the alien power completely unusable. You may not look at facedown collected objects. Each object you have collected adds 1 to your total when you are the defense.

You may release object(s) as part of a deal with any player. Also, when you are not a main player, during the alliance phase you may release objects in trades. These trades may be suggested by any player, must involve the release of one or more objects, and may include anything that could be given as part of a deal; however, only you may gain a foreign colony from such a trade. You must accept a simple trade of a foreign colony for an owner's object. You may use this power to finalize each alliance-phase trade. Each released object is restored to its original purpose and location and its ID ship returns to any of its owner's colonies.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Alliance) (Planning)

The Pack Rats scurry about dragging objects back home, to the chagrin of prior owners.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may take one ship each belonging to any or all players from colonies. Move each ship taken to another of its owner's colonies, or to the warp.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: When collecting an object, you may specify which colony the owner must choose the ID ship from.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Parasite: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: Parasite may ally with the defense even if Energy Cloak is used, because Parasite does not need an invitation. Force Field error: The reference to Parasite being prevented by Force Field is incorrect; this is a holdover from the Eon/Mayfair version of the power. In the FFG edition, Parasite has to use his power during his normal turn to ally, which would always be before the Force Field is playable (it comes "after alliances are formed"); thus it is impossible for that artifact to prevent Parasite's power. Force Field can of course cancel Parasite's alliance afterwards, regardless of whether or not he used his power to obtain it, but in no way does the artifact preclude the use of this power.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Parasite made itself accountable only to Force Field and Magnet specifically, whereas FFG's version is more wisely written to submit to all similar ally-controlling game effects. FFG's Wild Parasite wisely specifies that it only works on powers lost due to holding insufficient home colonies, whereas Eon's Wild Parasite could (unfortunately) be interpreted to also work just after things like a Cosmic Zap or Wild Reincarnator.
Artist's note: Ryan Barger, who created the images for both Parasite and Pacifist, wrote "The parasite was among my personal favorites as well. His choice of victim was partly alphabetical and partly ironic."
Edited to eliminate the incorrect reference to prevention by Force Field, to avoid implying that Wild Parasite can be played twice in the same encounter, and to fix Super Parasite's launch bug and incorrect timing bar.
[q="Parasite (Green)"]Joins Alliance at Will

You have the power to Infest. When it is your turn to ally, you may use this power to ally (sending one to four ships, as usual) with one side as if you had been invited, even when you were not.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

Evolving late on their almost totally polluted world, the Parasites had to depend on the already dominant life forms for survival. But, so rapidly did they succeed in infesting their home planets, they now need unsuspecting hosts to carry them throughout the far reaches of space.

Wild: When another player loses the use of his or her power because of having too few home colonies, you may immediately establish a colony on one of his or her home planets with one of your ships. (If that player regains his or her power and loses it again on a later encounter, you may use this flare again in that system.)
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As an ally, you may send any number of ships you want into the encounter.
(Ally Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Particle: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Particle has 8 entanglement tokens. Planetary destruction: If a planet you have entangled is removed from the game (for example, by a game effect such as The Entropy Beast, Wild Guerrilla, Locust, Wild Locust, or Omega Missile), discard its entanglement token as part of that action. Since you are now unable to resolve the entanglement, discard the paired entanglement token as well. Your ships do not have to leave the remaining planet because entanglement was broken at the moment the first planet was destroyed.
Edited the wild flare for clarity.
[q="Particle (Red)"]Planets Are Paired

You have the power of Quantum Entanglement. As the offense or an ally, if your ship(s) should land on the targeted planet and that planet does not have an entanglement token, use this power to entangle it with another planet. Place one unassigned entanglement token next to the targeted planet and place its paired entanglement token (with the same letter) next to any other planet that is not already entangled.

Whenever the number of your ships on any entangled planet changes, including immediately after using this power, you must add your ships to or remove your ships from the corresponding entangled planet so that you have the same number of ships on both. Ships moved to resolve the entanglement must come from or go to your other colonies on planets that are not entangled.

Whenever you are unable to resolve an entanglement, or you have no ships on a pair of entangled planets, those planets' paired entanglement tokens are discarded.

If an entangled planet is removed from the game, the paired entanglement tokens affecting it are discarded. Your ships stay on the remaining planet.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

p(a,c) - p(b,a) - p(b,c) < 1... Right?

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may draw one card, discard one card, retrieve one ship from the warp, or lose one ship to the warp. Then every other player must do the same, if possible.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: As the defense, if you win the encounter or gain a colony, you may use an unassigned pair of entanglement tokens to entangle the planet where you won or gained the colony with any other planet, as long as neither was already entangled. Immediately resolve this new entanglement.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Patriot: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Captured? The forced ship surrender is not defined as capturing, but probably should have been. If Patriot should receive a hired ship from Merchant, a horde token from Horde, or a ship introduced by Wild Horde, you should probably treat that the same way as capturing and discard the card, token, or ship. Awkward: This is a very oddly constructed alien. Patriots are characterized by loyalty to their own homeland; they aren't the diplomats or the Welcome Wagon. Even more strangely, it is another player's refusal to accept your loyalty that leads to dealmaking with that player; if he accepts your loyalty, no deal is queued up. One might think that this alien is all about offering a good enough card to secure loyalty for a future deal, but of course none of that is happening here. It all feels quite backwards. In no way does this alien encourage you to "think like a patriot," and thus it completely misses the mark thematically. (On the gameplay side, it feels like a permission alien that reduces to a weak Empath combined with a weaker Philanthropist.)
Edited to require Patriot to force a deal situation before encounter cards are selected, and to prevent him from "returning zero ships" to do so.
[q="Patriot (Yellow)"]Offers Cards to Secure Loyalty

You have the power of Loyalty. Once per encounter, you may use this power to show any player one card from your hand as a show of loyalty. If the player accepts your loyalty, he or she adds the card to his or her hand. If the player declines your loyalty, he or she must give you one of his or her ships from any colony. Place that ship on this sheet.

As a main player, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, if you have any ships on this sheet belonging to your opponent, you may use this power to return those ships to that player. Proceed to the resolution phase and resolve the encounter as if both players had revealed negotiate cards.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

There is no more faithful ally to have supporting your cause than the reliable, steadfast Patriot. The species is proud of its long heritage of fidelity, while many other races find its loyalty annoying and pretentious.

Wild: As an ally, after your side wins the encounter, you may draw one card from the deck or retrieve one ship from the warp, in addition to any other benefits or rewards you may receive.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may select a number of opposing allies' ships equal to the number of ships you have involved in the encounter. The selected ships are sent to the warp.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Peddler: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Restocking: When restocking your store, you do not draw 8 new cards; draw only enough to replace the one you just discarded, those you've sold and not replaced, and those lost for any other unusual reasons. Combine these new draws with the existing store cards, and then arrange the eight as you wish (6 up and 2 down).
[q="Peddler (Red)"]Sells Cards

Game Setup: After all players are dealt their starting hands, draw a total of 8 cards from the cosmic, reward, and/or tech decks (whichever are in the game). Look at the cards and create a "store" of six faceup cards and two facedown cards. Cards in your store are not part of your hand, but you may look at them at any time.

You have the power to Sell. After alliances are formed, if you are not a main player, once per encounter you may use this power to sell one card, either publicly from your faceup store cards or privately from your facedown store cards. Players may offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal to buy that card. In a private sale, you may show the card to whichever player(s) you like; those not shown the card may still make a "blind" offer. When you sell a tech card, its owner places it facedown and researches it normally. Any cards you gain from the sale must be placed in your hand.

At the end of any encounter, you may place your hand to one side while you pick up all of the cards in your store. Discard one of them. Then draw cards to restock your store back to eight from any or all of the decks available, and reopen your store with any six of its cards faceup and the other two facedown.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

The Peddlers have been shaking hands and hawking their wares across the Cosmos and hope to be on every corner of every planet very soon!

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may spread your hand faceup out in front of you and sell it, with or without this flare, to another player. Players may offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal. Accept an offer or discard your hand; then draw a new hand before receiving your offer and returning this flare to whoever now owns it.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: At the start of any encounter, you may choose one faceup card from your store and add it to your hand. If it is a tech card, place it in front of you to research instead.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Pentaform: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Mayfair Games, revised by the fans, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled Gameplay: Mayfair's Pentaform essentially could not be zapped independently of the life stages, and the life stage was tied continuously to the foreign colony count. The FFG version makes the life-stage change a discrete event tied to gaining or losing a colony, and thus it can be zapped (by Pentaform or his opponents) to keep him at his current stage. Mayfair's Wild Pentaform did not add flares to the deck. Mayfair's Super Pentaform allowed reordering all life stages at once.
[q="Pentaform (Red)"]Has Five Life Stages

Game Setup: Draw five flares from the unused flare deck and arrange the matching alien powers in front of you as "life stages," in the order of your choosing. If any have Game Setup text or are not allowed in the current game, discard them and draw again. Remove the five flares from the game and slide this sheet partway under the leftmost life stage.

You have the power to Evolve. You use both your Pentaform power and whichever life stage it is underneath (zapping one does not zap the other).

Whenever you gain a foreign colony, use this power to move this sheet one life stage to the right (if possible). Whenever you lose a foreign colony, use this power to move this sheet one life stage to the left (if possible).
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Evolving on the fifth moon of the fifth planet of their star system, the Pentaforms coincidentally developed with five distinct life stages. Though differing in form from one specimen to another, all Pentaforms go through cataclysmic changes from each life stage to the next: childhood, adolescence, adulthood, middle age, and seniority. They have been causing a handful of trouble for the rest of the galaxy.

Wild: You may discard your current alien power and draw two cards from the unused flare deck. Choose one of these two aliens and become that alien. If either has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, discard it and draw again. Shuffle those two flares into the deck. Give this flare to the Pentaform after use (or discard it, if the Pentaform isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: At the start of any encounter, you may swap the positions of any two of your life stages (without moving the Pentaform sheet).
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Perfectionist: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. "Appropriate" cards means you discard cosmic cards if the cosmic deck needs reshuffling, or reward cards if the reward deck needs reshuffling.
[q="Perfectionist (Green)"]Keeps Only the Best

You have the power to Be Finicky. Whenever you add any cards to your hand (including when you are dealt your starting hand), you may use this power to reject any of those cards you don't want and stack them facedown on this sheet in a reject pile. Immediately replace the cards you discarded with new ones drawn from the deck (but you may not discard and replace any of the replacements).

You may offer cards from your reject pile as part of a deal.

When another player takes card(s) from your hand at random, you may use this power to force that player to take them from your reject pile instead (if that pile has sufficient cards).

If any player cannot draw cards because a deck and its discard pile have too few, you must discard 15 appropriate cards at random from your reject pile (or as many as you have if it's fewer than 15) before that discard pile is reshuffled.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Parlaying eons of research into a 99.9% rejection of inferior products, with a sniff and a wave, the Perfectionists now pick and choose their way to Cosmic mastery, keeping only the best of the best.

Wild: If you are unsatisfied with a card you received via rewards or compensation, you may set it aside facedown and draw or take another. Then, the set-aside card is discarded or returned to the other player, as appropriate.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may reject any or all of your own allies. Rejected allies return their ships to their colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Phantasm: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games,. Mandatory: Be aware that playing Phantasm can work against you. If both players reveal attack cards and yours would win the encounter, you face the roughly one-in-five chance of drawing a negotiate card, which means now you have to either lose the encounter or let your opponent take compensation from you. Or, suppose you are the defense and both players reveal negotiate cards. Normally a colony-for-colony deal would be an easy sell, but if your power produces an attack card (almost a fifty-fifty chance), now you will win a relatively pointless encounter but lose out on that foreign colony. House rule: Darth Thulhu recommends making Phantasm's power use optional.
[q="Phantasm (Green)"]Replaces Encounter Card

You have the power of Instability. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, use this power to reveal the top card of the deck.

If it is not an encounter card, discard it. If it is an encounter card, replace one of either player's revealed encounter cards with the card from the deck, discarding the replaced card. In either case, the encounter then continues normally.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Often mistaken for other species, the Phantasm's constantly roiling form makes it difficult to classify. This works well for the secretive race, as Phantasms enjoy befuddling and confusing others.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may reveal the top card of the deck. If it is an encounter card, either discard it or use it to replace (and discard) your current encounter card. If it is not an encounter card, add it to your hand.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may continue to draw and discard cards from the deck until you have drawn two encounter cards. Choose one of the two to replace (and discard) one of the revealed encounter cards. Discard the other.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Philanthropist: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Timing leak: Except when Philanthropist is the offense, his Super flare is easily thwarted if the player to whom he gives an encounter card simply cites the Timing Conflicts rule and selects his card before the flare can be played. This can be fixed with a "when cards are to be selected" timing clause. Lending powers: When an alien power is stolen, traded, loaned, etc., all of that power's special features, such as Miser's hand or Warrior's tokens, go with it; see facets of powers for more information. If an alien power specifies that it cannot be stolen, then it also cannot be traded, loaned, etc.; this and other related leaks have been patched on the relevant aliens (Horde, Pygmy, and Symbiote) by adding that they cannot be separated from their player color.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Philanthropist worked "before cards are played" and FFG works "after alliances," but the two are functionally equivalent. Eon's Wild Philanthropist did not require sending a ship to the warp to use its effect. Eon's Super Philanthropist worked even on non-encounter cards.
Historical note: This underestimated power is generally the favorite alien of original Future Pastimes game designer Peter Olotka.
Edited to fix the main player bug, for grammar, and to explicitly place Super Philanthropist before card selection to fix Timing Conflicts rule abuse.
[q="Philanthropist (Yellow)"]Gives Away Cards

You have the power of Giving. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to give one card from your hand to either main player (your opponent, if you are a main player). That player immediately adds the card to his or her hand. If, after using this power, you do not have any encounter cards in your hand and you are a main player, you draw a new hand.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

Rejecting a heavy-handed, dogmatic religious background, the cynical Philanthropists have learned to parody greed itself. Knowing that the Universe cannot bring itself to reject a gift, even when it is no present, the race has grown cunning in the art of self-serving charity.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may send one of your ships to the warp to lend your power to another player for the duration of the encounter. Until the end of the encounter, that player is considered to have your power instead of his or her own. You may not use your power while it is loaned out. The player may not refuse the loan.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: When encounter cards are to be selected, if you used your power to give a player an encounter card, you may force him or her to play it in that encounter if possible.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Pickpocket: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by the fans, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Pickpocket (Green)"]Lifts Cards from Other Players

You have the power to Lift. Once per encounter, you may use this power to take one card at random from the hand of any other player who has a foreign colony in your system. Add the card to your hand or discard it.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The glorious civilization of the once-noble Edificabi throve for millennia before giving in to the ease of burgling over building. As production of new resources dwindled, their world fell into decline and might have faded from the annals of Cosmic history, had not an unwitting company of spacefarers stumbled upon their troubled neighborhood. Quickly relieving the visitors of every last item of value, the Edificabi – by now reduced to little more than squabbling Pickpockets – saw their chance at a better future. Empowered by their newfound spaceflight technology, they artfully turned their nefarious skills upward and outward. Centuries later, these "big dippers" are still at work lightening the loads of their fellow travelers.

Wild: When the hyperspace gate is aimed at a planet in your system, you may take a number of cards at random from the offense's hand up to the number of ships he or she has in the gate. Keep or discard each card taken. If the offense now has no encounter cards in hand, he or she draws a new hand.
(Not Offense) (Launch)

Super: When using your power, you may take a card from any or all other players who have a foreign colony in your system.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Pirate: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled Gameplay: Eon's Pirate and Super Pirate were completely different; the base power allowed making raids on other players' Lucre when not a main player, and the Super flare blocked the opponent's power use during the raid. Eon's Wild Pirate was completely different: it allowed you to hide a "Lucre treasure" on a planet for another player to find and split with you.
Historical note: The original Pirate depicted a seemingly typical image of a human with a parrot on its shoulder. However, the history (which has been preserved in this version) revealed the surprising twist that the Pirate was actually the parrot. In FFG's version, the minion whose ear is being whispered into is apparently "off camera."
[q="Pirate (Yellow)"]Captures Ships for Booty

You have the power to Raid. As the offense or an ally, if your side wins the encounter, you may use this power. Capture one or more ships from the losing side by returning an equal number of your winning ships to your other colonies (they do not land on the targeted planet, receive rewards, or gain other benefits from winning). Place the captured ships on this sheet.

During any regroup phase, you may send up to four ships from this sheet to the warp to receive an equal number of rewards.

During any regroup phase, you may negotiate the release of any or all ships on this sheet (back to colonies) in exchange for anything their owners may legally give you in a deal, such as cards from their hands or new colonies where they already have one (although this does not count as a deal).
(Offense or Ally Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Whispering rapacious orders into their ears, a small flock of rogue traders leads its minions into the far reaches of interstellar space.

Wild: For each reward you are to receive as a winning ally, you may take one card at random from the winning main player's hand instead of drawing a card from the deck or retrieving a ship from the warp.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: When using your power, you may capture up to two losing ships for each of your ships that you choose to return to your colonies.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Plant: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Stealing powers: When an alien power is stolen, traded, loaned, etc., all of that power's special features, such as Miser's hand or Warrior's tokens, go with it; see facets of powers for more information. Unanswered question: What is the last sentence of the power trying to say? This obvious and redundant statement is true for every alien in the game. Noteworthy interactions: Grafting The Claw allows Plant to inspect the claw card and use it to steal a planet if there's a match (but of course he cannot swap cards in the regroup phase). As a graft of Pirate, Plant may capture ships but may not spend them. It's unclear whether you can use Reactor's power to take flares from the sheet, since you were not grafting the power at alliance time. When Saboteur is grafted, Plant gets to look at all of Saboteur's tokens to see where the traps are, and he must carry out token reveals as needed, but of course he cannot move the tokens around. Tip: If Plant grafts a power that is zapped, or a power that (whether implicitly or explicitly) can be used only once per encounter and has already been used, then Plant cannot use that power during the encounter. For example, a wise Seeker will use his power in the alliance phase, before Plant has the chance to snag it. Dead zone: About one-third of the aliens in the game are of no use to Plant. Some he cannot graft at all, others can easily thwart him by using their own powers early, still others can be grafted but for little or no benefit, and some are even harmful to Plant. As of Cosmic Eons, 66 of the 195 other aliens (34%) are in this category: Ace, AI, Alchemist, Alien, Aristocrat, Bandit, Bleeding Heart, Bride, Brute, Butler, Cavalry, Changeling, Chrysalis, Coordinator, Cryo, Demon, Dervish, Dictator, Disease, Evil Twin, Filth (see below), General, Grudge, Hate, Horde, Hunger, Invader, Laser, Leviathan, Lizard, Locust, Love, Lunatic, Masochist, Maven, Mind, Mite, Mutant, Nanny, Outlaw, Parasite, Peddler, Philanthropist, Pickpocket, Pretender, Prophet, Pygmy, Relic, Remote, Roach, Sadist, Sapient, Seeker, Shadow, Sloth, Sniveler, Surgeon, Swindler, Sycophant, Symbiote, Tourist, Trickster, Voyager, Will, Wormhole, and Yin-Yang. On first glance it would appear that copying Filth would be a great benefit to Plant, since this would eliminate all opponents' colonies that he coexists with; however, once the other players realize this, they will be unwilling to ally offensively with him or trade colonies with him in a deal, not only making Filth effectively useless to graft but also making Plant even more of a pariah than usual. Abuse potential: Plant gets nothing from Cryo until there are 8 or more cards in cold storage, and then he can steal the entire stored hand. When grafting Fury, he can use up as many tokens as he wants. When Macron is the victim, Plant can have a ship contribution of 4x4=16 while Macron (as the offense or an ally) is stuck with 1x1=1. Grafting Tick-Tock provides no benefit except when removing the last token to steal the game win. (Arcade and Tortoise can also be grafted at just the right time to steal the win, and in the latter case it's particularly unfortunate since Tortoise's power entirely depends upon getting to do its thing at the end of the game.)
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Plant could graft any time from the moment it became the offense or defense up until card selection; FFG's Plant must wait until the start of the Planning phase. This significant reduction in scope prevents Plant from effectively grafting a large number of other powers. Also, because of the way Macron's limitation is separated from its benefit, Plant can abuse Macron to get four ships worth 4 each into the hyperspace gate for an impressive total of 16 + allies + attack card (and if Macron is in the encounter, his lone ship is now worth only 1). Eon's Wild Plant was "promoted" to became the FFG Super Plant (a wise change; considering the cheesiness of such a stolen win, it was good to make this nasty trick a special feature of Plant rather than something anyone else could theoretically do, out of the blue). Eon's Super effect allowed Plant to steal the power of any ally without requiring a colony in that ally's system.
[q="Plant (Red)"]Accumulates Opponents' Powers

You have the power of Grafting. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to graft any one player in whose home system you have at least one colony. If that player has not lost his or her power, you steal that power until the end of the encounter. If you lose your own power, you may not graft any power until you get your own back.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

This species of Plant combines the longevity of the redwood, the persistence of the weed, and the delicacy of the fern. Slowly grafting to themselves the traits of others, they can afford to quietly wait until their enemies grow tired, then spread their tendrils unopposed throughout the Cosmos.

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may steal the power of any ally (yours or your opponent's). Until the end of the encounter, you have the stolen power instead of your own, and the affected ally does not have the power.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: If you have a colony in the system of any player who wins the game, you may cause the win to be ignored. Instead, you win alone.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Poison: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Edited to make the incorrect prerequisite icon consistent with other similar powers and to address the MANDATORY/may use conflict.
[q="Poison (Red)"]Has Hazardous Home System

You have the power of Toxicity. Each time a card with a hazard warning is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power. Each foreign colony in your home system loses one ship to the warp.

In addition, as a main player, if both players reveal attack cards and your opponent's attack card value is within 2 of your attack card's value (such as an attack 04 and an attack 06), you may use this power to win the encounter, regardless of the actual totals.
(As Any Player) (Varies) (Destiny) (Reveal)

Born from an ooze of chemicals that are highly toxic to all other life forms, the Poison are greatly feared for their ability to kill with a single touch. Those who visit their homeworlds must exercise extreme caution, as even the barest whiff of the atmosphere can prove fatal.

Wild: As the offense, after aiming the hyperspace gate at a planet, you may send one ship belonging to a player other than yourself on that planet to the warp.
(Offense Only) (Launch)

Super: You may use your power if you and your opponent reveal attack cards within 3 of each other, rather than 2.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Porcupine: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. House rule: Darth Thulhu recommends letting Porcupine use its power even when its side is not currently losing the encounter.
[q="Porcupine (Yellow)"]Discards Cards for Attack Power

You have the power to Needle. As a main player or ally, if both players revealed attack cards and your side would lose the encounter, you may use this power to discard any number of cards from your hand. Then, add or subtract from your side's total an amount equal to the number of cards you discarded.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Under no circumstance is meeting a Porcupine a pleasant experience. Although highly intelligent, these creatures declare vendettas with little or no provocation. They exhibit no sense of self-preservation when pursuing the target of their ill will. Rather than talking out their problems, they are more than happy to let their razor-sharp quills do all the talking for them.

Wild: As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards, you may reveal any number of cards in your hand. Then add one to your side's total for each card revealed, including this flare.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When using your power, you may add three to your side's total instead of one for each card you discard.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Pretender: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Dead zone: Pretender cannot switch seats with aliens that cannot be separated from their player color, such as Horde, Lizard, Pygmy, Roach, Swindler, and Symbiote. Facets: For more information on what moves and what doesn't, see facets of powers.
Edited for clarity.
[q="Pretender (Red)"]Moves To Best Seat

You have the power to Take Over. As the offense, after destiny is drawn, you may use this power to take your alien sheet(s) and everything on them and move to what you consider to be the best seat. The player in that seat takes his or her alien sheet(s) and moves to your seat. Facets of alien powers, such as the Miser's hoard, the Warrior's tokens, and alien essence cards, move with those powers. Everything else is left behind to become the property of the arriving player, including player colors, ships, hands, planet systems, colonies, etc.

After taking over another player's seat and finishing your turn, play continues from you based on the new seating order.
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Destiny)

Pretenders instinctually gravitate toward those with power and privilege. Now their sphere of possible targets has widened to include the many life forms of an increasingly complex Cosmos.

Wild: At the start of another player's turn, you may name a card type and ask for the best card of that type from another player's hand. If that player has any cards of that type, he or she gives you whichever one is the best from his or her point of view. Give this flare to that player after use.
(Not Offense) (Start Turn)

Super: When you use your power, you may decide that both players must also move their hands to their new seats.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]
:Prophet: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: When Prophet's prediction is not correct but there is no winner (failure to deal, Wild Loser, Morph vs. Morph, Meteor Storm, etc.), who selects which ships are sent to the warp?
Edited to avoid implying that deals count as wins in general, to resolve the problem of Prophet being wrong when there is no winner to select his losing ships, and for correct terminology.
[q="Prophet (Red)"]Predicts Encounter Winner

You have the power to Predict. When you are not a main player or ally, you may use this power before encounter cards are selected to predict aloud which main player (offense or defense) will win. A deal counts as a win for this purpose. If you are correct, you gain a colony on any one planet of your choice. If you are not correct, the winner selects any two of your ships and sends them to the warp. If there is no winner, this power has no effect.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Optional) (Planning)

Declaring themselves to be omniscient, the Prophets set forth into the promised vacuum of space to seek a new home in the interstellar wilderness. Are these Prophets false? Only the Eons will judge.

Wild: Before encounter cards are selected, you may play this flare and secretly predict whether one or two negotiate cards will be played. Conceal that many tokens in your hand to indicate your prediction. If your prediction is correct, each other player in the game must lose a ship of his or her choice to the warp. If you are wrong, give this flare to the player on your left.
(As Any Player) (Planning)

Super: You may predict after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Pygmy: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Overflow ships: Winning ships that cannot fit on a Pygmy planet return to other colonies.
Landing timing: When the offense wins at a Pygmy planet, the losing defensive colony will hang around just long enough to affect how many winning ships can land there. If the Pygmy planet is already "full," then no winning ships can land. (See resolution sequence.)
Unzappable: The MANDATORY icon does not make sense here, since that icon applies to use clauses and Pygmy has none. Dave Hollingsworth proposed that such aliens should use the word CONTINUOUS instead, to avoid misrepresenting what the Optional/Mandatory icon actually means.
Edited to define foreign colonies on Pygmy planets as being worth half only toward a game win and thus counting as full colonies for all other puposes (in order to clarify issues such as Prophet, Siren, Relic, or Winner needing to gain one foreign colony in Pygmy's system), to block power-trading and -lending effects like Changeling, Wild Philanthropist, Wild Sorcerer, and Psychic Switcheroo, and to prevent Wild Schizoid from violating the intent of the "power cannot be lost" clause.
[q="Pygmy (Green)"]Colonies Count as Half

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the five extra planets of that color in your home system (four in a four-planet game). Place two of your ships on each of your home planets. Your player color is the color of your ships. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power of Half. Each of your home worlds counts as only half of a foreign colony toward victory for all other players (rounding down). There can never be more than four ships on any of your planets (counting yours). When determining landing order, use the timing rules. This power cannot be zapped, lost, stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.
(As Any Player) (Continuous) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

When the Cosmos was young, the Pygmies were quite large, living on twin worlds, rich with valuable resources. A gravitational anomaly caused the two planets to collide, scattering the Pygmies among the ruined rubble of their former homes. With so little space to exist, each successive generation of the Pygmy race became physically smaller, but the desire to grow their empire never diminished. The inhospitable chunks of debris on which the Pygmies now live serve only as a staging ground for their invasion of other worlds.

Wild: When a player collects rewards, you may cause him or her to take only half as many rewards as usual (rounding down).
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: As the defense in your home system, if your opponent reveals an attack card, you may divide its value in half (rounded down).
(Defense Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Quartermaster: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Mike Anthony, Kevin Fox, and Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Quartermaster (Yellow)"]Delivers Rewards

You have the power to Supply. Whenever other player(s) should receive rewards, use this power. Those players announce how many rewards of each kind they will receive. You decide which colonies their ships return to. Then, you draw all of their cards together, look at them, and deliver the appropriate number to each player as you choose. If multiple sources are involved (e.g., the cosmic and reward decks), you must draw the cards as announced but may deliver them as you choose, as long as each player receives the correct number.

If you are due rewards as well, receive yours afterwards. Otherwise, when delivering the others' rewards you may either retrieve one of your ships from the warp, or draw one extra card from a deck those rewards came from, include that card in your delivery decisions, and keep whichever card is left over for yourself.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Quartermasters were first tasked with ordering supplies for other alien races. They soon found themselves handling transportation and military equipment for the entire Cosmos, taking on more and more responsibility. As time passed, the influence of the Quartermasters became more pronounced, until the line was blurred between who was giving the orders, and who was receiving them.

Wild: When a player gains cards as rewards, you may fulfill one or more of the required number with cards of your choice from your hand.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: If you are also due rewards when you use your power, you may mix your hand and your own reward draws together with the cards drawn for others. Deliver the others' rewards from this mix and keep what's left as your hand.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Reactor: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unusual format: Reactor's flare has extra text below the Super effect. This mandatory text is always in effect, and following it does not count as playing the flare. Flares for extra aliens: When a game effect such as Alien Outpost, Wild Chrysalis, or Pentaform brings aliens into the game, Reactor puts their flares on his sheet. The extra aliens for Pentaform and Alien Outpost appear at game setup time, and Reactor's own Game Setup text requires taking all flares that match other players' aliens. Wild Chrysalis happens mid-game, but since it discards the flare to the unused flare deck discard pile (by default), then Reactor's last-paragraph use clause would apply. (This would not work, however, with mid-game effects that put their matching flares into a hand or the deck, such as Chrysalis and Wild Pentaform, since Reactor's final paragraph takes flares only when they are discarded.)
[q="Reactor (Red)"]Makes Aliens Super

Game Setup: Before flares are added to the deck, take the flares that match all other players' alien powers and place them faceup on this sheet. Cards on this sheet are not part of your hand. The other flares are shuffled into the deck as usual.

You have the power of Radiation. As an ally, if the main player on your side wins the encounter and his or her matching flare(s) are on this sheet, use this power to give that player his or her matching flare(s).

If neither main player invites you to ally and one of them loses the encounter, you may add the losing main player's matching flare(s) to your hand from this sheet, discard that player's matching flare(s) from your hand, or add your own matching flare(s) to your hand from this sheet.

When any player's matching flare is discarded by a player other than you, use this power to place that flare faceup on this sheet.

If at any time you play any other super flare and the Reactor is playing, you must give him or her this flare.

(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Originally an environmentally conscious race of peaceful activists, the Reactors sought to turn themselves into a source of sustainable energy. Yet the awesome power of Cosmic radiation and its mutating properties transformed the Reactors into radioactive freaks, eager to spread their sickness to other power-hungry cultures.

Wild: As the winning defense, you may establish one colony on any foreign planet. Give this flare to the Reactor after use (or discard it, if the Reactor isn't playing).
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: If your side wins an encounter and you have no other flares in your hand or on your sheet, you may use this flare to win the game.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Reborn: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Mayfair Games (as Grief), expanded by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Formerly known as Grief in the Mayfair edition (although Reborn is considerably more powerful and thus obsoletes Grief).
Retooled gameplay: Reborn's first paragraph is functionally identical to Grief; the second paragraph is new.
Edited to clarify that Reborn and Wild Reborn draw cards from the cosmic deck.
[q="Reborn (Green)"]Filters Hand of Cards

You have the power of Rebirth. For each ship you lose to the warp, you may use this power to draw a card from the deck.

For each ship you retrieve from the warp, you may use this power to discard a card of your choice from your hand.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Reborn were once a vibrant, happy race spreading across the Cosmos. But then, one of their scientists discovered a fateful technology that allowed the older members of the race to transfer their consciousness into the bodies of their offspring. Although this allowed them to preserve the memories and skills of their wiser members, the chance to cheat death was ultimately too tempting for the Reborn, who have since become a ghoulish race of nearly immortal beings living on in their children's bodies.

Wild: During any regroup phase, if the offense retrieves a ship from the warp, you may draw a card from the deck.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: During your regroup phase, you may discard cards from your hand to retrieve your ships from the warp on a 1-for-1 basis.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]
:Reincarnator: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Errata: Wild Reincarnator reflects official FAQ errata (shown in blue).
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Reincarnator drew a new power "just before the next challenge," whereas FFG's happens immediately upon losing (or perhaps at the end of the resolution phase). Eon's version caused Plant and Insect to copy only the secondary power; FFG's is written more generically for all copying powers, and requires them to copy the Reincarnator as well as the secondary power. Eon's Wild Reincarnator was completely different: it forced all players to unconditionally reincarnate and remained in the player's hand for re-use as often as once per challenge.
Edited to fix the main player bug in the power, Wild, and Super texts, to fix the "copying" provisions to work with game effects like Plant that steal rather than copy, and to accommodate Wild Plant by expanding the provisions to all game effects (not just aliens).
[q="Reincarnator (based on FAQ errata) (Yellow)"]Uses Powers Not in Game

You have the power of Reincarnation. As a main player or ally, when your side loses an encounter (or you fail to deal), use this power to reincarnate. Draw an unused alien power at random and become that alien. If the alien has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, discard it and draw again. If your side loses or you fail to deal again, discard that alien and reincarnate again. This power stays with you while you use the others. Players that copy or steal your power use both your Reincarnator power and whatever power you are reincarnated as. If while doing so their side loses an encounter or they fail to deal, they must reincarnate, losing their original power.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Having conquered the fear of death, the Reincarnators rejoice with the passing of each of their kind. Feeling kinship with all life forms, they know that those who die will soon be born again in an endless cycle.

Wild: After another player who is not the Reincarnator is on the losing side of an encounter or fails to make a deal, you may give this flare to that player. Immediately after the end of this encounter, that player must discard his or her current alien power and draw an unused one at random. If the alien has Game Setup text or is not allowed in the current game, the player must discard it and draw again.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: You don't have to reincarnate when your side loses or you fail to deal.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Relic: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. New hand: Having your hand scrambled by something like Trader, Wild Oracle, Cosmic Upheaval, or a cosmic quake is not "drawing a new hand" and thus does not trigger Relic's power. Unanswered questions: When does Relic's power trigger if Wild Cavalry is in effect? Does Cryo picking up his cold storage count as "drawing a new hand"?
Edited to fix Wild Relic so it does not require all of the retrieved ships to go to the same planet.
[q="Relic (Red)"]Gains Power from New Hands

You have the power to Awaken. Any time another player draws a new hand of cards (after his or her starting hand), use this power to immediately gain a free foreign colony in his or her home system on a planet of your choice.

Any time you draw a new hand of cards (after your starting hand), use this power to retrieve all of your ships from the warp, returning them to your colonies.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Eons ago, a warlike race of machines swept across the Cosmos, conquering one planet after another. However, before they could complete their terrible goal, they began to shut down, seeking refuge in hidden caves and beneath murky seas on countless worlds. Now, these machines have begun to awaken once more, ready to continue their ancient dreams of Cosmic domination.

Wild: When retrieving one or more ships from the warp, you may return some or all of them to any one of your home planets, even if you currently have no ships on that planet.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: At the start of any player's turn, you may choose any player other than yourself. That player chooses and discards one card from his or her hand.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Remora: Alien power, base set, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Reward deck: The phrase "the deck" refers to the cosmic deck unless the reward deck is also mentioned, and thus Remora would not activate when another player draws from the reward deck. Some players house rule Remora to work that way, but there is no general rule that all references to "the deck" automatically include the reward deck. Weak flare: Wild Remora may be an unintentional victim of this version's once-per-encounter flare timing.
Edited to clarify that the power does not restrict other forms of ship retrieval.
[q="Remora (Yellow)"]Gets Cards or Ships with Others

You have the power to Cling. Whenever another player retrieves one or more ships from the warp, you may use this power to retrieve one of your ships from the warp as well. You may not use this power to retrieve a ship during the same encounter in which it went to the warp.

Whenever another player draws one or more cards from the deck, you may use this power to draw one card from the deck as well.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Universe's original tag-alongs, the Remoras first reached space as the valued servants of the dominant race on their homeworld. Seldom accomplishing anything for themselves, the Remoras simply make themselves useful to others and then ride their coat-tails to victory. Although other races might chide them for a lack of drive, the Remoras simply wonder why they should give up a good thing.

Wild: When another player uses a super or wild flare, you may draw a card from the deck.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When another player gains a colony, you may either draw a card from the deck or retrieve a ship from the warp. If multiple players gain colonies at once, draw a card or retrieve a ship for each.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Remote: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Fungus: If Remote turns a fungoid stack into a remote, the entire stack sits on the Remote alien sheet until activated. In this way Remote could potentially keep a large number of ships out of circulation. Wild Horde: Ships introduced by this flare are intended to leave the game whenever they are not on a colony with normal ships. Thus, when a Wild Horde ship is "removed from the game" by Remote, it is truly removed from the game and not placed on Remote's sheet. Basically it gets removed, but does not immediately return as a normal ship would. Macron still sends only one ship when forced to ally by Remote. Power swap: If Remote comes under the control of a different player (e.g., due to Changeling, Wild Sorcerer, etc.), its new owner could have ships of his own color on the sheet. Although the text forbids using a remote of the opposing main player, it does not forbid using one of your own (which is fortunate, since otherwise you would not be able to get your ships back). In this case, you would have the ability to ally with yourself, in much the same way that Lunatic allies against himself. Noteworthy interaction: Remote is essentially reduced to a non-power by Healer. (The Cosmodex recommends using a house rule to prevent Healer from healing ships that are removed from the game.) Historical note: Some players have commented that Remote could be a merged replacement for both Crystal and Magnet, with a little bit of Fungus mixed in.
Edited to resolve the four-ship compulsion with effects like Macron.
[q="Remote (Red)"]Forces Others to Ally

You have the power to Control. As a main player, after you win an encounter, you may use this power to turn one ship in the encounter belonging to one opposing player into a remote. To turn the ship into a remote, remove the ship from the game and place it on this sheet.

As a main player, after allies are invited but before alliances are formed, you may use this power to activate one or more of your remotes. Send each activated remote to the warp. Then, the players who own the activated remotes are forced to ally with you for this encounter and must each send four ships (or as many as possible up to four). A player must send all of his or her ships if he or she has fewer than four. A controlled player must abandon home and/or foreign colonies to send the requisite number of ships, if necessary. You cannot activate a remote belonging to the opposing main player during an encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance) (Resolution)

Evolving from a potato-like creature, the Remotes are both lazy and frightened of suffering personal harm. Why do their own fighting, they figure, when they can just use their mind control technology to get others to do it for them?

Wild: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may force each of your allies to add one extra ship to the encounter, if able. However, they are not required to abandon colonies to do so. Your allies may exceed four ships in the encounter as a result of this flare.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may turn a ship belonging to each opposing player into a remote, not just one opposing player.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Reserve: Alien power, base set, designed by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Noteworthy interaction: Reserve is one of the few aliens that manipulates encounter totals but is not perturbed when facing Anti-Matter, because Reserve's faux reinforcement cards can be played to increase Anti-Matter's total. Weak flare: Wild Reserve may be an unintentional victim of this version's once-per-encounter flare timing.
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Reserve could not apply to attack cards lower than –06, so it would not have been able to use the attack –07 as a reinforcement card. Mayfair's Wild Reserve was completely different: it allowed the retrieval of all reinforcement cards played during the encounter. Mayfair's Super Reserve was significantly stronger, allowing any one attack card to be played as a reinforcement.
Name collision: Reserve and Cavalry, under FFG, both have "the power to Reinforce." As this is believed to be the result of a transcription error, the Cosmodex restores Mayfair's original "power to Augment."
Edited to eliminate the name collision and to clarify that Super Reserve allows only one attack 07, 08, or 09 to be played.
[q="Reserve (Green)"]Can Use Attacks as Reinforcements

You have the power to Augment. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to play one or more attack cards of 06 or lower from your hand as if they were reinforcement cards of their listed value.

As a main player or ally, when another player plays a reinforcement card, you may use this power and discard a negotiate card to cancel and discard that reinforcement card.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

The Reserves became the dominant species on their homeworld by waiting for other beings to wear each other out and then arriving with timely force to deliver a knockout punch. Showing the effective use of timing, the Reserves call in extra strength just when they need it most.

Wild: When another player discards a reinforcement card (whether after playing it or not), you may take it and add it to your hand. Reinforcement cards you play are discarded as usual.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may use your power to play any one attack card of 09 or lower as a reinforcement card.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Roach: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Roach (Red)"]Spawns Additional Ships

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and place the 20 ships of that color on this sheet (16 if you are playing with four planets per player). Ships of this color are your roach ships. When not on this sheet, roach ships function as normal ships in every way. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power to Breed. When you are determined to be the defense during another player's turn, you may use this power to place up to four ships from this sheet among the planets in your home system, including planets where you have no current colony.

During your regroup phase, you may use this power to place up to four ships from this sheet among your colonies outside of your home system.

Whenever a roach ship would be sent to the warp, it is placed on this sheet instead.

This power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means. You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Regroup) (Destiny)

The Roaches tend to scurry, scamper, and outnumber their enemies into submission. Wherever you see one, there are bound to be more. In fact, in the vast sprawling cities of Nova Yorkk, locals say you are never more than two meters from a Roach at any time.

Wild: After gaining a colony as a winning ally, you may add up to four of your ships from the warp to the newly established colony.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: After establishing a colony as the offense or an ally, you may remove up to four ships from your sheet and add them to any of your colonies in any system.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q] 
:Saboteur: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, significantly revised by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Saboteur has 24 saboteur tokens; 8 are "trap" tokens and the rest are decoys. Planetary relocation/destruction: If a planet is moved, any saboteur tokens placed next to that planet go with it; if the planet is destroyed, return the tokens to Saboteur's alien sheet. Formerly known as Terrorist in the Eon and Mayfair editions.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Terrorist allowed the player to hide five "bombs" anywhere, requiring pencil and paper for keeping track. FFG's brilliant token-based reinterpretation gets rid of the pencil and paper and is more interactive and engaging via the start-of-encounter swap mechanism. Terrorist allowed more than one bomb on the same planet concurrently (with only one blowing up at a time), whereas Saboteur specifically prohibits multiples. Eon's Super Terrorist was completely different: it allowed the planting of one additional bomb each turn.
Edited to fix the "shared colony" reference (there is no such thing).
[q="Saboteur (Red)"]Booby Traps Planets

Game Setup: Take one trap token and two decoy tokens per player (including yourself). Place these tokens facedown next to any planets of your choice. Place no more than one token next to a given planet.

You have the power to Booby Trap. Any time ships land on a planet with one of your tokens next to it, use this power to reveal the token. If the revealed token is a decoy, return the token to this sheet. If the token is a trap, send all ships on the planet (including those that just landed) to the warp and then return the token to this sheet.

At the start of each encounter, you may either swap any two of your tokens (whether next to a planet or on this sheet) or take a token on this sheet and place it facedown next to any planet that doesn't already have one of your tokens next to it.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Long demented by the magnetic unbalance of their own planet, the Saboteurs can see no way but their own and are determined to achieve it by violence.

Wild: As a main player, if you coexist on a planet with your opponent, you may declare your opponent's ships on one such planet hostage before encounter cards are selected. If you lose the encounter or fail to deal, the hostage ships immediately go to the warp. Hostage ships may not be removed from the colony until the encounter is ended, other than as part of a deal, regardless of other game effects.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: After revealing a decoy token, you may discard a negotiate card from your hand to treat the decoy as though it were a trap token.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Sadist: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Christopher Oliveira, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: With Wild Sadist, how do we determine who exactly is "sending" ships to the warp in each situation? Noteworthy interactions: Sadist is essentially rendered a non-power by a single use of Mobius Tubes if it isn't zapped, and is perhaps just as vulnerable to Rifts which, although they generally target fewer ships, have no counter-card.
Edited for wording consistency and clarity.
[q="Sadist (Red)"]Wins by Killing Others' Ships

You have the power to Inflict Pain. At the start of any regroup phase (before the offense retrieves a ship from the warp), use this power to win the game if all other players have lost at least eight ships each. Lost ships include ships in the warp, ships removed from the game, and ships captured by other players.

You may still win the game via the normal method.
Do not use with Zombie or Healer
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Regroup)

A civilization that glorifies pain and pleasure in primal, brutal rituals, the Sadists barely manage to keep their own race alive. Desiring to spread their brand of worship across the Universe, these being enter the Cosmos with peering eyes, blood on their hands, and the desire to kill as many living things as possible.

Wild: When you send another player's ships to the warp, you may draw one card from the deck for each player who lost ships to you.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: At the start of any encounter, you may choose a player with at least one ship in the warp (even yourself) and any other player. The first player retrieves a ship from the warp, then the other player sends one of his or her ships (his or her choice) to the warp.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]
:Sapient: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Cosmic Encounter Online, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Edited for compatibility with the Super flare timing by hinting a bit more that Sapient's token accrual can happen during the resolution phase (instead of reveal, when wins and losses are determined).
[q="Sapient (Green)"]Adds Wisdom Points

You have the power of Wisdom. After you win an encounter as an ally, place one token on this sheet. After you lose an encounter as an ally, place a number of tokens equal to the number of your ships involved in the encounter on this sheet. In either case, add one extra token if playing with four planets per player.

As an ally, after the main players reveal attack cards during an encounter, use this power to add 1 to your side's total for each token on this sheet. Doing so does not cause you to discard tokens.
(Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Brewed in the cauldron of a gorgeous planet circling a robust star in a spectacular galaxy, the Sapient culture became dominated by those who combined beauty with brilliance. Now they turn their alluring essence outward, secure in the knowledge that all life forms will desire them as allies.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add 1 to your side's total for each home colony you have.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: When you add tokens to your sheet, you may add twice as many tokens as usual.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Scavenger: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Edited to avoid shuffling reward-back cards into the cosmic deck, and to clarify that the Super flare works only after losing a colony, not after placing discarded cards on your sheet.
[q="Scavenger (Yellow)"]Searches Discard Pile

You have the power to Scavenge. Whenever you lose a colony, you may use this power to search the discard pile, take one card of your choice, and add it to your hand.

Whenever you would place one or more cards in the cosmic deck discard pile, you must instead place those cards faceup on this sheet. Cards on this sheet are not part of your hand. These cards are added to the discard pile whenever it is reshuffled to form a new deck.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Few races are as resourceful as the Scavengers, a species renowned for recycling, re-using, and at times re-eating virtually anything they come across. Their gear is often cobbled together from the remnants of discarded tech from other races, augmented with seemingly random features or customization.

Wild: When you lose a colony, you may draw three cards from the deck. Add one of the cards to your hand. Discard the other two.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: After using your power, you may look at one player's hand and take one card of your choice.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Schizoid: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Schizoid has 6 schizoid cards. Switching home systems: Wild Schizoid's system-switching effect breaks the alien powers that are not supposed to be stolen (Horde, Pygmy, Symbiote). However, rather than adding a clunky patch to the flare card, this leak is best addressed by revising those alien powers' protection statements to be more comprehensive: "This power cannot be... stolen, copied, or separated from your player color." Wild Schizoid vs. Fungus: When Wild Schizoid transfers fungoid stacks to a new player, each stack remains together (until lost to the warp) but counts as only a single ship because the new owner does not have the Fungus' power.
Edited to require Schizoid to announce winners, to avoid the problem that when a player zaps the Schizoid to win, any other joint-winners would technically lose, and to correct Super Schizoid's timing icon.
[q="Schizoid (Red)"]Changes Goal of Game

Game Setup: Take the six schizoid cards, choose one of them, and place it facedown on this sheet. Place the other five facedown as a deck near this sheet.

You have the power to Alter Reality. The facedown schizoid card on this sheet lists the victory conditions players must fulfill in order to win the game. These conditions replace the normal victory condition of accumulating enough foreign colonies to win, and you must announce when any player(s) have fulfilled them. Alternate victory conditions (such as those of the Masochist or Tick-Tock) are not affected by this power. Any player who has completed the normal victory condition may play a Cosmic Zap on you at any time.

Each time you are on the losing side of an encounter, the winning main player chooses a card from the schizoid deck at random and reveals it to the winner(s) of the encounter. Then, shuffle the chosen card back into the deck.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Long ago their system slipped into a cascading series of alternate spacetimes. Now the Schizoids believe that universal acceptance of their current reality will end their madness.

Wild: After the end of any encounter, you may switch home systems (and therefore player colors) with any other player of your choice. Afterwards, discard this flare.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: At the end of your turn, you may choose a card from your unused schizoid deck and swap it with the schizoid card on your sheet, as long as this does not give any player an immediate win.
(Offense Only) (Resolution)

Classic Edition
Wild: After the end of any encounter, you may switch home systems (and therefore player colors) with any other player of your choice. Afterwards, discard this flare.
(As Any Player) (Resolution)

Super: If this flare is in your starting hand, reveal it and write a victory condition down instead of choosing a schizoid card. The condition must (1) be possible for all players to meet, (2) be clear to all as it happens, (3) not require remembering past events, and (4) require at least 3 foreign colonies. If this flare leaves your hand, reveal your written victory condition to all players.
(As Any Player) (Game Setup)
[/q]
:Seeker: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Intent: It is legal for Seeker to ask about a player's intent to win or lose the encounter, but of course this can be difficult to verify. Timing: Seeker's timing window is unusual and unnecessarily complex, and its two timing indicators are essentially redundant with each other. Some alien powers act "after alliances are formed" in the Alliance phase, and others act "before encounter cards are selected" in the Planning phase, but Seeker is the only power which redundantly specifies both of those adjacent timing windows. Either one by itself would have been sufficient, and more consistent with the other powers. Given the existence of both timing icons on the sheet, it is puzzling and unfortunate that the power doesn't allow Seeker to operate before alliances as the original Eon version did. Considering the number of similar kinds of mistakes in this edition, there is an implication here that an earlier design stage of the power may have in fact worked as Eon intended it to, and was then unintentionally nerfed at editing time. Unanswered question: Does the requirement for the questioned player to "abide by his or her answer" prevent that player from initiating voluntary actions that would prevent this? 
Retooled gameplay: Eon Seeker could ask a question "any time before cards are played." FFG Seeker is significantly weaker since it has to wait until "after alliances are formed," so unfortunately it cannot use the question to influence alliances. Eon's Seeker also placed no duration on the effect of the question, which allowed locking players into game-long commitments; FFG wisely limits each question's binding effect to the current encounter. Eon's Wild Seeker is not explicitly limited to one main player per encounter.
Edited to clarify that Wild Seeker can wait until after invitations from both players.
[q="Seeker (Yellow)"]Asks "Yes or No" Question

You have the power of Truth. As a main player or ally, after alliances are formed but before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to ask one "yes or no" question of one of the main players (your opponent, if you are a main player). That player must answer your question truthfully. If your question involves the player's intentions during this encounter (such as "Are you going to play a negotiate this encounter?"), he or she must decide now and abide by his or her answer. Once this encounter ends, the player is no longer bound by his or her answer.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Alliance) (Planning)

Evolving during an intense struggle between more developed species, the Seekers gained ecological room only by acute sensitivity to their opponent's disposition. Always probing, they closely evaluate what is known. Lately, Seekers have turned searching eyes upon the Cosmos.

Wild: After allies are invited, you may choose one player who invited you and demand to see the encounter card he or she intends to play. If you ally with that player, he or she must play that card, if possible. You may demand to see only one player's encounter card per encounter.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)

Super: When using your power, you may ask any question, not just a "yes or no" question. The player you ask must still answer it truthfully.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Alliance) (Planning)
[/q]
:Shadow: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes (as Assassin), illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: If the offense draws more than one destiny card, Shadow may execute one ship for each. Rulebook error: The rules state that Shadow can cause the loss of a ship that is researching a tech card, but this is impossible since the power says "choose one of that player's ships from any colony."4 Formerly known as Assassin in the Eon and Mayfair editions.
Retooled gameplay: FFG's Shadow adds text to define how it works with wild and special destiny cards (which did not exist in Eon). Eon's Wild Assassin did not require sending a ship to the warp to use the effect.
Edited to fix the attack bug and to prevent Wild Shadow from incorrectly referring to a planet that may not be yours as "your planet," as well as to avoid problems with effects like Winner and (perhaps someday) moons.
[q="Shadow (Yellow)"]Removes Others' Ships

You have the power to Execute. Whenever any other player's color or a special destiny card that targets another player is drawn from the destiny deck, use this power to choose one of that player's ships from any colony of your choice and send it to the warp. On a wild destiny card, you may execute one ship belonging to any other player regardless of whom the offense chooses to encounter.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Destiny)

After being subjected to colonial domination for thousands of years, a hive of Shadows rose up on an outpost planet in a forgotten empire. Devoted to guerilla warfare and adept at choosing the most isolated and vulnerable targets as their victims, they mercilessly cleansed their sector of its overlords. Having become imperialists themselves, however, they now have new uses for their old talents.

Wild: As the defense, when you lose an encounter in which your opponent played an attack card, you may send one of your ships not in the encounter to the warp to take all opposing ships to the warp with you. In spite of winning, those ships do not establish colonies.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: When you execute a ship during your turn, you may replace it with one of your ships, retrieved from the warp.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Sheriff: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Sheriff has 9 "ticket" essence cards. Edited to delete the reference to a non-existent icon.
[q="Sheriff (Yellow)"]Upholds the Law

You have the power to Ticket. Once during each player's turn, you may use this power to choose a ticket from your essence card cache and either discard it, or give it to any player who is committing the infraction on that ticket and has the cards or ships needed to pay the fine. That player immediately pays the fine. If the fine is in cards, you select them at random from his or her hand. If the fine is in ships, the player chooses which of his or her ships to lose. The player keeps the ticket faceup.

As the fine is being paid, you may use this power to seize it as a gratuity. Add some or all of the cards to your hand instead of discarding them, or retrieve a number of your ships from the warp up to the number fined. Then the player flips the ticket facedown and gains immunity against further tickets while he or she has a facedown ticket.

When all other players have immunity or you have no tickets remaining, all tickets are returned to you.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The Sheriffs recognize that minor offenses left unchecked will lead to chaos. That the swift serving of justice seems to serve their own intergalactic dreams is but a by-product of their vigilance.

Wild: At the start of any turn, you may play this flare in front of another player as an electronic monitor. That player cannot send more than one ship to the hyperspace gate without your permission. At the end of that turn, that player adds this flare to his or her hand, but cannot play it against you until after it has been played against any other player but you.
(As Any Player) (Start Turn)

Super: You may ticket or discard twice per turn.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Siren: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: As is the case with Eon's Wild Siren, when the other player is allowed or required to draw a specific number of cards and ends up giving up one or more of them because of Wild Siren, are those draw(s) replaced?
Retooled gameplay: Eon's and Mayfair's versions did not require Siren to have a colony in the original defense's system, but on the other hand they did not allow Siren to choose which planet will host the encounter. FFG's improved wording clarifies that it is Siren who chooses the targeted planet and where the free colony goes, and that gaining that free colony is not dependent upon Siren having actually "lured" the offense.
Edited to fix the incorrect prerequisite icon (and thus prevent Siren from having an encounter against herself), to clarify that Wild Siren receives all drawn copies of the named card (as ruled in Encounter magazine v1n5p8), and to define how the free colonies provided by Super Siren are populated.
[q="Siren (Yellow)"]Entices Challengers

You have the power to Lure. Whenever a player in whose home system you have a colony is chosen as the defense, you may use this power to aim the hyperspace gate at one of your home planets on which you have a colony (your choice which) and become the defense instead. The encounter then continues normally.

Whenever you win an encounter as the defense, you immediately gain a free foreign colony in the offense's home system on a planet of your choice.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Optional) (Destiny)

Born on a planet of beauty and illusion, the Siren entices unsuspecting travelers into her traps. Seduced by her call, the luckless guests are totally unaware of the destruction awaiting them.

Wild: For the rest of this encounter, each time cards are drawn from the deck, you may name a card (e.g., attack 30). Each time that card is drawn, it must be given to you.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: As the defense, before allies are invited, you may offer a colony in the offense's system to each defensive ally should you win the encounter. If you make such an offer and win, then when you gain a free foreign colony in the offense's home system, each defensive ally may either gain a colony on that planet with you using his or her ships in the encounter or receive rewards as usual.
(Defense Only) (Alliance)
[/q]

:Skeptic: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Double doubts: Deducing exactly who loses how many ships following a double doubt can be a bit tricky, especially when Skeptic is an ally. Eon's original version had some issues with its wording, and FFG's revision unfortunately added a complication. Before discussing the issues, let's look at the original outcomes of a double-doubt:
- If your side loses, your own loss (as a main player or ally) is doubled.
- If the other side loses, the opposing main player's loss is doubled.
- If both sides lose, which is very rare, technically nobody's loss is doubled (but see below).
- If a deal fails and you are a main player, each player loses 2x3=6 ships.
- If a deal fails and you are an ally, the opposing main player's loss is 2x3=6, yours is 2x0=0, and your main player's loss is still 3 (your risk never doubles the loss of anyone else on your side).
Both sides losing: Technically, Skeptic's penalty applies only if a deal fails or one player loses. However, it is easily arguable, and intuitively preferable, that in the rare case where both sides lose (e.g., due to Wild Loser, Morph vs. Morph, or Meteor Storm), both players should suffer the penalty. This is thematically appropriate, since you both boasted of winning and you both were wrong. Furthermore, the fact that you both suffer for a failed deal will lead many to naturally assume that the same thing happens with a double loss (especially given the common misunderstanding that a failed deal is a loss; see encounters). Similar logic applies in the case of the (expected) Diplomat when all three sides fail to deal. With this in mind, and to eliminate the ambiguity, the Cosmodex revises Skeptic to say "If any side loses or a deal fails...." Super Skeptic has a problem which goes back to the original Eon text. As written, (a) it actually penalizes the main player you are allied with, since he, not you, is the loser, and thus it tends to also be read to mean "both main players" lose extra ships if the reader does not infer "both of you"; and (b) it incorrectly refers to you failing to deal, which is the wrong perspective when you are an ally. The revisions listed here correct all of these issues as well as FFG's retooling side-effect discussed next. Increased risk: Jack Kittredge ruled that Super Skeptic is allowed to increase the number of ships at risk beyond the number he currently has available to lose (Encounter magazine v1n5p8).
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Skeptic said, "the number of tokens normally lost by either of you is doubled." This construction used the word either in the sense of "either or both," resulting in the outcomes listed above. However, FFG's subtle wording change to an either/or construction, along with the change from passive voice to the imperative mood, introduces (probably unintentionally) a choice, forcing the Skeptic player to apply the penalty to either one player or the other. This means that when FFG's Skeptic is double-doubted as a main player and fails to deal, he technically chooses whether to double only the opponent's loss or only his own.
Edited to fix the defensive ally bug, to avoid the implication that a double-doubt immediately skips to card selection and blocks other "before cards are selected" actions; to clarify what happens with a rare double loss; to remove the (probably unintentional) choice of whom to punish after a failed deal; and to fix Super Skeptic's player-perspective and player-reference problems, remove its redundancy, and improve its readability.
[q="Skeptic (Yellow)"]Doubles Risk of Encounters

You have the power to Doubt. As a main player or ally, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to tell the opposing player: "I doubt that you will win." If the opposing player agrees with you and is the offense, that player ends his or her turn and the offense's and allies' ships return to colonies. If the opposing player agrees and is the defense, all offensive ships in the hyperspace gate establish a colony on the planet as if they had won (although defending ships already on the planet remain) and defending allies return to colonies.

If the opposing player disagrees or "double doubts" you, the encounter continues. If any side loses or a deal fails, the number of ships normally lost by either of you is doubled.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Planning)

During growth, one colony of marine Skeptics achieved the size and organization necessary for neuronic activity. Proliferating into super-rationality, they doubt the brash claims of others and see no reality but their own.

Wild: During the alliance phase, after you have been invited to ally, you may wait until all other invitees have made their decisions before you decide whether to ally or not.
(Not Main Player) (Alliance)

Super: When you tell a player you doubt that he or she will win, you also tell him or her how many ships not in the encounter (1-20) are at risk (instead of your normal doubling). If he or she double doubts you, instead of doubling their losses the penalized player(s) lose that number of additional ships.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Sloth: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Sloth has 1 sloth token.
[q="Sloth (Yellow)"]Shows Up at Last Minute

Game Setup: Take the sloth token and place it on this sheet.

You have the power of Laziness. As the offense or an ally, when you should send your ships into the encounter, use this power to send the sloth token in their place instead of deciding how many ships to commit. The sloth token is not a ship.

After encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, replace the sloth token with 0 to 4 of your ships from any of your colonies. Then, return the sloth token to this sheet.

If you replace the sloth token with zero ships as the offense, you must still continue your encounter. If you replace the sloth token with zero ships as an ally, you are no longer an ally.
(Offense or Ally Only) (Mandatory) (Launch) (Alliance)

The Sloths will eventually arrive in force to take over the sector. Any time now. Just wait for it. They should be here soon.

Wild: As an ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add ships to the encounter from any of your colonies, as long as you do not exceed any hyperspace gate limits.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may allow each player allied with you to add up to four more ships from any of their colonies to the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Sneak: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games,. Super Sneak must be given to another player after use, not to yourself.
[q="Sneak (Yellow)"]Colonizes Attacker

You have the power to Infiltrate. As the defense, after you lose an encounter that results in losing one of your home colonies, you may use this power to immediately place your ships from the losing encounter on any one planet in the offense's home system instead of sending them to the warp.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(Defense Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

The Sneaks are masters of disguise and stealth. In fact, there are many conflicting opinions about what the aliens actually look like, where they live, and what sort of technology they have at their disposal. This suits the Sneaks fine, as they are quick to take advantage of the confusion and insinuate themselves into other aliens' societies.

Wild: As the defense, after losing an encounter, you may look at your opponent's hand before or after any compensation is collected. Take one of those cards and add it to your hand.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: When using your power, you may establish two colonies in the offense's home system as long as you have enough ships to create two colonies. Afterwards, give this flare to any player.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Sniveler: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Ties allowed? Whether or not Sniveler can whine when he is tied for most ships or least colonies has been a source of debate. Allowing this can lead to degenerate gameplay (especially at the beginning of the game when Sniveler could easily nullify every foreign colony acquired by all other players), so the Cosmodex revises the text to clarify that Sniveler must be truly "behind" everyone else to whine about ships or colonies. Timing: Wild Sniveler has unusually loose timing for this version of the game. It cannot be played until after both main players have issued their invitations, but its parenthetical phrase suggests that the flareholder can complain before, during, or after other players' acceptance decisions. The relative strategic value of complaining early or late would depend upon one's assessment of the invited players' likely decisions. Devoured planets: The player consensus is that Sniveler counts Locust's devoured planets when determining if he can whine about colonies, but those planets are not at risk; if Locust has no regular (ship-held) foreign colonies, then he is free to torpedo the vote on Sniveler with impunity.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Sniveler did not limit the power to before ally invitations, and counted all of Sniveler's bases (rather than just external ones). It also did not limit the player to naming just one card. Eon's Super Sniveler did not prevent the previous winners from allying with you.
Edited to prevent Sniveler from whining when he is only tied for most ships in the warp or least colonies.
[q="Sniveler (Yellow)"]Catches Up When Behind

You have the power to Whine. As a main player, before allies are invited, if you have more ships in the warp than all other players, have fewer foreign colonies than all other players, or lack an encounter card you want, you may use this power to whine about it. If you whine about your ships, either all other players must agree to let you retrieve all your ships from the warp, or (if possible) they each must place ships into the warp until each matches your number there. If you whine about colonies, the other players must agree to let you have one extra foreign colony of your choice or they each lose one foreign colony of their choice, returning those ships to their other colonies. If you whine about cards, you name a card you don't have (e.g., "I don't have an attack card higher than a 15"). Either one player must give you such a card or all players must discard all such cards in their hands. Whine only once per encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

The Snivelers developed in the evolutionary shadow of a closely related but older and more gifted race. Beset by adversity at every turn, they looked to their elder brethren for succor and defense. Now grown adept at self-pity and having liquidated their generous patrons, they turn their wet, envious gaze toward the heavens.

Wild: When not a main player and not invited to ally at all, you may complain to one main player. If that player still does not invite you, he or she may not invite any allies (previous allies return to their colonies).
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Alliance)

Super: If one or more other players win the game and you are within one colony of winning, you may join their win if they all agree. Otherwise, you may encounter one winning player of your choice who refuses. During the encounter, none of the previous winners may ally with you. If you win the encounter, you and all of your allies win the game. If you don't, the previous win stands.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Sorcerer: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Trading powers: When an alien power is stolen, traded, loaned, etc., all of that power's special features, such as Miser's hand or Warrior's tokens, go with it; see facets of powers for more information. If an alien power specifies that it cannot be stolen, then it also cannot be traded, loaned, etc.; this and other related leaks have been patched on the relevant aliens (Horde, Pygmy, and Symbiote) by adding that they cannot be separated from their player color.
Retooled gameplay: FFG's Wild Sorcerer protects the Sorcerer from having his own flare used against him, and then gives it to the Sorcerer after use.
[q="Sorcerer (Green)"]Can Switch Played Cards

You have the power of Magic. As a main player, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to switch encounter cards with your opponent so that he or she reveals your card and you reveal your opponent's card.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)


Over eons the clan of Sorcerers studied the Cosmic flow and learned to channel these tides to their own needs. Beginning with minor alterations in the probability patterns of matter, they progressed to transportation of objects over great distances. Undaunted by an occasional backlash of fate, they even now are humming the incantations of mastery.

Wild: When the Sorcerer is not a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may force the main players to trade alien powers with each other. They keep their new powers after the encounter ends. Give this flare to the Sorcerer after use (or discard it, if the Sorcerer isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Planning)

Super: You may use your power as an ally, switching the main players' encounter cards.
(Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Spiff: Alien power, base set, designed by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Errata: Power reflects official FAQ errata (shown in blue).
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Spiff was mandatory. Mayfair's Wild Spiff was significantly different; it allowed a losing offensive ally to place all of his ships on the planet. Mayfair's Super Spiff required a difference in the players' totals of at least 6 rather than 5.
Edited to fix the coexistence bug and Wild Spiff's incorrect prerequisite bar.
[q="Spiff (based on FAQ errata) (Green)"]Receives Colony as Loser

You have the power to Crash Land. As the offense, if both players revealed attack cards and you lost the encounter by 10 or more, you may use this power to land one of your ships that would otherwise be lost to the warp on the targeted planet.
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Resolution)

Attacking vicious space monsters at incredible odds comes naturally to the valorous Spiffs. Their cunning and courage have let them save the day even when their doom seemed imminent. Let those who face them beware!

Wild: As the defense, when you lose an encounter, you may leave one of your ships on the planet instead of sending it to the warp.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power to crash land if you lose by a total of 5 or more instead of 10.
(Offense Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Squee: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Squee (Red)"]Is Dangerously Adorable

You have the power of Unimaginable Cuteness. As the defense, after encounter cards are selected but before they are revealed, you may use this power to bat your eyes at the offense and look too adorable to attack. The offense must choose whether to concede or continue.

If the offense chooses to concede, you win the encounter. Immediately proceed to the resolution phase. The played encounter cards will be discarded as usual.

If the offense chooses to continue, the offense must send any three of his or her ships to the warp. If the offense reveals an attack card and wins the encounter, you collect compensation even if you did not reveal a negotiate card.
(Defense Only) (Optional) (Planning)

The Squee are so incredibly cute that they are almost painful to behold. From their fuzzy wuzzy feathers to their adorable eyes, you just want to pick them up and love them and hug them and protect them forever. Unless you are a Locust, in which case you prefer to devour them by the dozen.

Wild: After you lose an encounter as the defense, you may choose one other player involved in the encounter on either side. That player must send ships to the warp from any of his or her colonies equal to the number of ships you lost during the encounter.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: As a defensive ally, during the planning phase, you may force the offense and each offensive ally to remove one of his or her ships from the hyperspace gate. Removed ships return to any of that player's colonies.
(Defensive Ally Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Sting: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Sting allowed the player to force another player to substitute for all lost tokens, not just half, and when Sting had insufficient cards to compensate for the loss it allowed the other player to take the remainder in Lucre.
Edited to clarify that the card draws are at random.
[q="Sting (Yellow)"]Switches Lost Ships

You have the power to Substitute. Each time you lose ships to the warp, you may use this power to designate another player to substitute half the lost ships instead. Return half of your lost ships (rounded down) to your colonies. Then, your substitute makes up for the saved ships by choosing an equal number of his or her own ships to lose to the warp. That player may then take one card at random from your hand for each ship he or she lost. If you have too few cards, that player may draw the remainder needed from the deck.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Genetically sterile through a side effect of their colony's energy shield, the Sting desperately sought a way to save themselves from extinction. In their quest, they stumbled upon a vampiric form of immortality. Emboldened, they now scour the Cosmos in search of a cure for their sterility, and woe to those who try to stop them.

Wild: When you are required to give compensation to a player, you may choose to give it to a different player instead.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may have another player substitute all of the ships you are losing instead of just half of them.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Surgeon: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Single-use facelifts: Each facelift is intended to be used once and then "rejected" from the body. The reason for the unusual language on the sheet is to handle flares that are (in various ways) given to another player after use. After using a facelift, normally you will remove it from the game; but if it is a give-to-somebody kind of flare and was not zapped, you instead give it away as instructed. Super? Facelifts are almost always Wild flares, because the Super flares for players' alien powers are generally already in the game. However, a few game effects — Precursor Seed, Reincarnator, and Wild Reincarnator — bring new aliens into the game without drawing flares to select them. If you follow those effects literally, a new alien's Super flare will remain in the unused flared deck and could theoretically be drawn by Surgeon and sold to the alien's owner as a facelift. In this very rare case, the player would use the flare's Super effect rather than its Wild effect.
[q="Surgeon (Red)"]Gives Aliens Facelifts

Game Setup: Draw three flares from the unused flare deck and place them facedown on this sheet as "facelifts." The facelifts are not part of your hand. You may look at them at any time.

You have the power of Surgery. If you are not a main player, after destiny is drawn, you may use this power to choose any other player as your "patient" and offer that player a wild flare as a facelift. Show one flare from this sheet to the patient as a possible improvement for his or her alien power, and offer it in exchange for anything the patient could give you as part of a deal. If the two of you agree, place the facelift faceup next to the patient's alien sheet as a temporary part of that alien power and draw a replacement for this sheet from the unused flare deck. If you do not agree, return the facelift to this sheet.

If you choose not to offer a facelift, instead you may use this power to discard one or more facelifts from this sheet, and then draw replacements from the unused flare deck until you have three.

A patient may use his or her improved alien power to activate one of its facelifts whenever appropriate, even if you have lost this power. The facelift use does not count as playing a flare, but is an extension of that alien's power. After a facelift is used or Cosmic Zapped, it is removed from the game.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Destiny)

Nothing beats a "cosmic cut" by a Surgeon... small fee required.

Wild: You may invite other players to offer you anything they could give you as part of a deal, in exchange for any alien power not in the game that has no Game Setup text. You may accept one player's offer, giving that player the use of the alien (as an additional power) for the rest of the turn. If you accept an offer, give this flare to the Surgeon after use (or discard it, if the Surgeon isn't playing).
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: At the start of your turn, you may give yourself a facelift from your alien sheet for free.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Swindler: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Swindler has 7 swindler tokens; one is a "mark" token and the others are blank.
[q="Swindler (Red)"]Steals a Player's Identity

Game Setup: Take one swindler token for each other player in the game, making sure that one of these is the mark token with the "X" on its front. Secretly look at these tokens and place one token facedown next to each other player's alien sheet. The player to whom you assigned the mark token is your "mark." You may look at these tokens at any time, but the other players cannot.

As the original Swindler, you have the power of Identity Theft. After the defense has been determined, you may use this power. Reveal your mark by flipping all swindler tokens faceup and removing them from the game. You and your mark then exchange everything in the game, including physical seats, alien powers, player colors, ships, hands, systems, planets, colonies, etc. The encounter continues, although this may change who the main player(s) are. If the offense's color has become controlled by a different player, it is now that player's turn instead of the original offense's turn.

As the revealed mark, you have the power to Panic. During each other player's start turn phase, you may use this power to immediately gain a colony in the offense's home system.

This power cannot be stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.
(As Any Player) (Optional) (Start Turn) (Destiny)

To a Swindler, stealing identities is like taking candy from a larval Atrachean Gooshumple.

Wild: As an ally, after your side wins, you may take one card at random from the hand of one ally on the losing side.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: As an ally, after both main players reveal negotiate cards, you may become the main player for your side. All ships in the hyperspace gate return to colonies and you attempt to make a deal with the opponent (suffering any penalties as appropriate). If you make a deal, it counts as a success for the player you replaced.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Sycophant: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Super Sycophant must be given to another player after use, not to yourself.
[q="Sycophant (Yellow)"]Wins Through Flattery

Game Setup: Place 10 tokens on this sheet (eight if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power of Flattery. If you are not a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to flatter one of the main players (even if you are allied against that player). If the player you flatter wins the encounter or makes a deal, discard one token from this sheet. If there are no more tokens on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

Eager to please all the other species in the system, the Sycophants do whatever they can to ingratiate themselves into as many alien societies as possible. The Sycophants' philosophy is simple: flattery is the sincerest form of flattery. And flattery leads to victory. Sort of.

Wild: After a player wins an encounter in which you were not a main player or ally, you may give that player a hearty congratulations and retrieve one of your ships from the warp for each player who has ships on the winning side.
(Not Main Player or Ally) (Resolution)

Super: If there are five or fewer tokens on your sheet, you may discard one of them. If there are more than five tokens on your sheet, you may discard tokens until you have five remaining. Afterwards, give this flare to any player.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Symbiote: Alien power, Cosmic Incursion, designed by Mayfair Games, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Reduced planets: If any of Symbiote's planets have been moved or destroyed, there may not be enough space to hold all of the ships that Super Symbiote is able to retrieve. In this case, the player simply cannot retrieve more than he has room for. Filth: Super Symbiote's unique coexistence override is apparently intended to keep Filth from interfering with Symbiote returning all of his lost ships to his home planets. However, it is difficult to see how this can succeed, since Filth doesn't act only when ships land on planets, but rather is a continuous effect. This seems to raise several questions: How long does the local suspension of Filth's power last? What if Filth later adds a ship to one of those colonies? What if Symbiote does? What if Filth leaves and returns? The Cosmodex assumes that the intention was to allow coexistence (and thus suspend Filth's power) indefinitely and separately on each planet where both players maintain a colony, and that each separate suspension of Filth's power ends when that particular coexistence ends naturally through other game actions. The text is therefore revised accordingly (reducing some verbiage in order to fit the revision onto an already crowded card).
Retooled gameplay: Mayfair's Symbiote did not allow ships of the secondary color to count as a colony without a normal-color ship being present, and allowed the power to be lost normally (in which case the secondary ships were frozen in place). Mayfair's Wild Symbiote was complete different; it allowed the Symbiote as defense to add other players' ships on the planet to his total. Mayfair's Super Symbiote was complete different; it allowed ships of the main color to come out of the warp to replace those of the secondary color. Unzappable: The MANDATORY icon does not make sense here, since that icon applies to use clauses and Symbiote has none. Dave Hollingsworth proposed that such aliens should use the word CONTINUOUS instead, to avoid misrepresenting what the Optional/Mandatory icon actually means.
Edited to block power-trading and -lending effects like Changeling, Wild Philanthropist, Wild Sorcerer, and Psychic Switcheroo and to define the scope and duration of Super Symbiote's coexistence override.
[q="Symbiote (Green)"]Has Twice as Many Ships

Game Setup: Choose one unused player color and take the 20 ships of that color (16 in a four-planet game), placing twice as many ships as usual on each of your planets. Your player color is that of the planets you use. Do not use this power unless you have an unused player color.

You have the power of Symbiosis. You have twice as many ships as usual. This power cannot be zapped, lost, stolen, copied, or separated from your player color through any means.
(As Any Player) (Continuous) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

The environmental extremes on the Symbiote's homeworld drove its two sentient species into a mutual interdependence. Now this exceptionally tough hybrid has discovered that the warp gives this two-in-one race a distinct advantage over its adversaries.

Wild: You may retrieve a ship from the warp during any other player's regroup phase.
(Not Offense) (Regroup)

Super: You may discard this flare at the start of any regroup phase to rescue all of your ships you choose, even ones in the warp, captured, or removed from the game. Place up to eight rescued ships on each of your home planets, even if you no longer have a colony there. On each of those planets, your ships ignore any game effect that would keep them from coexisting there, for as long as that coexistence lasts. This flare may not be canceled through any means.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)
[/q]
:Tick-Tock: Alien power, base set, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano. FAQ ruling: Tick-Tock may participate in a joint win if he discards his last token during resolution of an encounter in which other player(s) achieve victory (for example, if two other players make a colony-for-colony deal for the win).
Edited for terminology.
[q="Tick-Tock (Yellow)"]Limits Length of Game

Game Setup: Place ten tokens on this sheet (eight if playing with four planets per player).

You have the power of Patience. Each time any player wins an encounter as the defense or a deal is made between any two players, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. If there are no more tokens on this sheet, you immediately win the game. You may still win the game via the normal method.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Lurking in the depths of space-time beyond even the warp itself, this mechanical race waits patiently for the heat-death of the Universe, when it will rule over the strange abyss that remains. In the meantime, they subtly turn the races of the Universe against each other to prevent them from discovering a way to prevent the inevitable.

Wild: When the discard pile is shuffled to create a new deck, you may immediately establish a colony on any one other player's home planet with up to four of your ships.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When you win an encounter or make a deal, you may send one of your ships to the warp to discard a token from your sheet. This is in addition to any tokens you may discard through normal use of your power.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Tide: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Andrew Olson. House rule: Darth Thulhu recommends changing the power to force opposing winners to discard cards at random instead of by choice.
[q="Tide (Yellow)"]Makes Players Draw or Discard

Game Setup: Place two tokens on this sheet.

You have the power to Ebb and Flow. After you win an encounter as a main player, use this power to place one token on this sheet. Then, you and each of your allies draw one card from the deck for each token on this sheet.

After you lose an encounter as a main player, if there is more than one token on this sheet, use this power to discard one token from this sheet. Then, the opposing main player and each of his or her allies must discard one card of their choice from their hands for each token on this sheet.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

The Tide's cultural philosophy is simple: go with the flow. From an early age, members of the Tide's army are trained to react and respond to even the slightest change of plans. While some may consider the Tide's approach to military and diplomatic matters wishy-washy, the Tide seem resolute to vacillate on issues and continue to change their minds at a moment's notice.

Wild: As an ally, if you receive rewards, you may receive four rewards regardless of how many ships you had in the encounter.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may place one token on your sheet.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Tortoise: Alien power, Cosmic Eons, designed by Bill Eberle & Peter Olotka, illustrated by Felicia Cano. No normal encounters: As long as Tortoise does not get zapped or lose its power, it will not start any encounters on its turn. Under normal circumstances Tortoise will not be able to use offense-only effects such as Mobius Tubes or Warpspace Key, but may wish to zap itself in order to use such cards or even just to have a normal encounter or two. Regardless, the Tortoise is allowed to have "extra" encounters using effects like Infinity Drive and Wild Warrior, and could become the offense via Wild Butler or (hopefully someday) a republished Eon effect like Delegator or Timegash. Naturally Tortoise is still allowed/required to be an ally or the defense when appropriate. No other offenses: Because no other players are allowed to become the offense during Tortoise's final turn, effects like Wild Butler are not playable at that time. If Tortoise should draw an Invasion! destiny on its final turn it simply draws again (although the Invader could still draw a new hand). Loss of power during final turn: To start its final multi-encounter turn, Tortoise must of course still have the use of its power. If Tortoise loses its power during that turn (say, by abandoning home colonies in its mad dash to win), this does not cause the turn to end. Tortoise doesn't need the use of its power to continue that series of encounters, only to start them. However, if Tortoise has lost its power during the process of catching up with the winners, it will have to settle for the shared win. Without its power, it cannot push ahead for the solo win because that is a separate effect of the power. Final encounter: The final extra encounter that lets Tortoise try to convert a shared win into a solo win is just that: a stand-alone extra encounter, not a turn. There is no Start Turn phase and thus no built-in opportunity for Tortoise to draw a new hand or receive rewards. Super Tortoise destiny redraw: During development, Super Tortoise said "If necessary, the offense must draw destiny again until he or she is able to encounter a different player" in recognition of the fact that the offense could have already drawn a wild destiny or his own color, could be playing as the Will, etc., and thus there would sometimes be no need to draw a new destiny card. He could simply choose a new defense that agrees with his previous card, alien power, etc. The wording was changed just before the expansion was printed, and the final text unfortunately is confusing, since every player (even the Will) is required to "use destiny" (for the sake of hazard warnings, Shadow's power, etc.). It seems unlikely that this last-minute edit was intended to force a redraw in all circumstances, since if that were the case then the "if" clause should have just been deleted altogether.
Edited so that Wild Tortoise does not require multiple encounter cards to continue the turn.
[q="Tortoise (Red)"]Gets a Late Start

You have the power to Dawdle. At the start of each of your turns, use this power to receive four rewards and end your turn.

Each time you draw a card as a reward, draw the top card from an appropriate deck or discard pile. Any or all cards you draw as rewards may be placed facedown on this sheet in your "shell." Your shell is not part of your hand and may not be used until the end of the game, but you may look at it at any time.

When the game ends, if you have not lost this power, add all cards in your shell to your hand. If you are not one of the winners, take one final turn. You cannot use this power to gain rewards and no other players may become the offense regardless of other game effects. You may have as many encounters as you can, even if they are not successful and even if you lose this power, until you either run out of encounter cards or become a winner, sharing the win with all other players who are now achieving a victory condition, if any.

Whenever you are part of a shared win, if you have not lost this power you may either accept the shared win or attempt to win alone by having one more encounter (if you still have an encounter card). Other players who were part of the shared win may not ally with you. If you gain a foreign colony, you win alone. If not, you lose the game and the other winner(s) win.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)

The Tortoises shock all by moving the finish line to where they alone can venture.

Wild: On your turn, if you have had two successful encounters, you may have a third if you have an encounter card.
(Offense Only) (Resolution)

Super: As the defense, you may refuse to allow the offense to encounter you. The offense must encounter a different player and, if required to use destiny, must draw destiny again until he or she is able to encounter a different player.
(Defense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Tourist: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Jefferson Krogh, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Tourist has 1 cruise liner token. (It does not count as a ship.) Wild Tourist may peek at any card on the top of any deck, as well as a wide variety of cards that are face down in play, such as intimidates, kickers, encounter cards before they are revealed, the extra card used by Cavalry or Deuce, any tech being researched, Schizoid's schizoid card, The Claw's claw card, the encounter card under the Quark Battery, or a card on the sheet of an alien like Miser, Cryo, Host, or Mouth. It also may peek at a card set aside by something like Wild Doppelganger, Laser, Wild Laser, or Wild Voyager since those cards are on the table long enough for other actions to take place before the set-aside cards are picked back up again. However, cards that are face down on the table because of Wild Cryo, Gambler, Magician, Wild Magician, Wild Miser, Usurper, Whirligig, or Wild Whirligig cannot be peeked at, since placing them down and pickup them up is all part of a single action that Wild Tourist cannot interrupt. Finally, it appears that Wild Tourist cannot peek at Merchant's hired ships; Merchant's text implies that these are ships and not cards while on the table. Essence cards: It's clear that Wild Tourist can look at an individual essence card that is face down in play (such as a trauma, help, or bad dream that has been given to a player, or an essence card that Pack Rat is collecting). In the case of essence card sets and caches, however, things are more uncertain. These stacks intentionally not defined as "decks," so the first part of the flare does not apply. This leads to the Unanswered question: Can Wild Tourist look at any card in an essence card set or cache, or can it not touch sets and caches at all?
[q="Tourist (Yellow)"]Travels on Cruise Liner

Game Setup: Place the cruise liner token in your system. Now and each time the cruise liner enters your system, you may move up to four of your ships from your home colonies onto it, or vice versa.

You have the power to Sightsee. At the end of the destiny phase, if any hazard warnings were drawn during this encounter, use this power to send one of your ships to the warp from the cruise liner.

If no hazard warnings were drawn, use this power to move the cruise liner one system clockwise or counterclockwise. Then, if the cruise liner is in the defense's system and you do not already have a colony in that system, you may use this power to disembark all of your ships from the cruise liner to any one planet there. If for any reason you do not disembark, you may use this power to send a postcard home. Return one ship from the cruise liner to any of your colonies, and then take a card at random from the hand of that system's player.
(As Any Player) (Varies) (Destiny)

Among the most curious of all the races in the Cosmos, the Tourists have no interest in conquest. They'd rather see everything, though sometimes their visits stretch on for millennia. Their neighbors often mistake these visits for invasions. Rest assured, those really are flashbulbs and loud floral prints, not explosives and camouflage!

Wild: You may look at the top card of any deck, or any facedown card or alien sheet, without showing it to anyone else.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: After your cruise liner finishes moving, you may move some of your ships onto it from a colony in the same system, even if it's not your home system.
(As Any Player) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Trader: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: Trader cannot trade a hand that contains no encounter cards to his opponent (he must draw a new hand before trading). Noteworthy interaction: Trader essentially makes Genius a non-power.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Wild Trader was completely different: it allowed the exchange of a ship from the targeted planet with another ship elsewhere (but could not move the flareholder's ships).
Edited to implement the FAQ ruling that Trader cannot trade a hand that contains no encounter cards to his opponent. (The FAQ ruling is actually more comprehensive than this; see hands for more discussion.)
[q="Trader (Green)"]Trades Hands with Opponent

You have the power of Transference. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to trade hands with your opponent. You each then keep the new hand.

As the defense, if you need to draw a new hand, you must do so before trading hands with your opponent.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Originating on a Trojan Cloud in a heavily traveled star system, the crafty Traders learned to use the most valuable debris which drifted their way and discard the rest. As their numbers grew, however, they began to search out markets for their low-grade material. With a wealth of resources always at hand, they became adept merchants and soon were carefully scrutinizing all galactic transactions. Now they have begun to parlay their economic foundation into Cosmic control.

Wild: As a main player, before alliances are formed, you may draw one card at random from your opponent's hand and add it to your hand. You must then give your opponent one card of your choice (even the card you just drew) in return.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: You may use your power to trade hands with any player, not just your opponent.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]
:Trickster: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Edited for correct terminology and to fix Super Trickster's incorrect timing icon.
[q="Trickster (Green)"]Wins Encounters 50% of the Time

You have the power of Possibilities. As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may use this power to manipulate probability instead of having a normal encounter. If you do so, take a token and conceal it secretly in one of your hands. The other main player then chooses one of your closed fists. You then open both of your fists, revealing which hand held the token. If your opponent chose the hand containing the token, you lose the encounter. If he or she chose your empty hand, you win the encounter. In either case, the resolution phase is then carried out as usual.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Alliance)

The Tricksters are a race of incredibly powerful beings, able to manipulate the very fabric of the Cosmos with their minds without ever leaving their homeworld. Fortunately, they have few dreams of conquest, instead preferring to select members of other alien races to toy with. Still, given their power, there's always the chance that they could take over the Cosmos by accident.

Wild: As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may flip a coin. If it lands heads up, add 10 to your side's total. If the coin lands tails up, subtract 10 from your side's total.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may use your power after losing an encounter instead of before encounter cards are selected. The outcome of your power replaces the outcome of the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Tripler: Alien power, base set, designed by Cosmic Encounter Online, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: The online version of Tripler had to be zapped before pods (cards) were revealed, making that version stronger: opponents would have to make their zap decision without knowing whether it would help or hurt the Tripler. That version also included a long list of examples of how to multiply or divide by three (e.g., 30 = 10), but some of its entries incorrectly rounded down (40 = 13, 13 = 4) or didn't make sense (1-1 = -3). FFG wisely did not include this "alien math" chart on the alien sheet. (Rounding down actually would have made this alien simpler; for many people, simply ignoring any remainder is a less complex mental exercise than rounding up.) In addition, FFG performed some much-needed liposuction on the history.
Edited to clarify that Super Tripler cannot affect the opponent's attack card.
[q="Tripler (Red)"]Low Cards Triple, High Cards 1/3

You have the power of Thrice. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to adjust its value. If the card's value is 10 or lower, triple its value. If the card's value is higher than 10, divide its value by three (rounded up).
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Millennia of obsessive racing and betting have given the Triplers a knack for making something out of nothing. The unfortunate downside of such flimflammery is that they have become equally prone to making nothing out of something. The Triplers now wish to redefine the Universe as an opportunity for their final race, forcing all other beings to bet everything they have on one final mad dash across the Cosmos.

Wild: As a main player, when your opponent reveals an attack card of 15 or higher, you may divide that attack card's value by 3 (rounding up) before any other game effects are applied.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: When you use your power, you may triple the value of your attack card if its value is 13 or lower instead of 10 or lower.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Tyrant: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Unanswered question: What is supposed to happen to ships that should go to the warp but don't, yet have no place to go because (for example) the planet they are on is being destroyed, or an effect has forced "all" ships in a particular context to go to the warp?
Edited to eliminate the redundant rule restatement that will someday create a problem for an alien power that doesn't actually require an encounter card to proceed (i.e., Doppelganger).
[q="Tyrant (Red)"]Claims Other Players' Ships

You have the power to Subjugate. As a main player, when you win an encounter after revealing an attack card, use this power to subjugate one involved ship from each player on the losing side. Subjugated ships are captured and placed on this sheet instead of being sent to the warp.

When you are determined to be the defense against a player whose ships you have subjugated, use this power to force that player to discard one card at random for each of his or her subjugated ships.

When you are the offense and having an encounter with a player whose ships you have subjugated, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to add the number of that player's subjugated ships to your total.

When you would be forced to send ships to the warp, you may choose to send subjugated ships to the warp instead. You may choose to release subjugated ships as part of a deal. When a ship is removed from this sheet, it is no longer subjugated.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Destiny) (Reveal)

It is no surprise that upon the arrival of the Tyrant into a new sector of space, other races begin to suddenly make travel plans to distant regions. The Tyrants are one of the most despised races in the Cosmos given their brutal leadership style, which often ends in their victims' indentured servitude.

Wild: As an ally, at the end of the encounter, you may take one card at random from the hand of each other player who sent one or more ships to the warp during the resolution phase.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)

Super: During your regroup phase, you may subjugate one ship from the warp belonging to each player with ships in the warp and place those ships on your sheet.
(Offense Only) (Regroup)
[/q]

:Usurper: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Bryan Stout (as Federalist), history by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Usurper (Yellow)"]Makes Allies Play Encounter Cards

You have the power to Accroach. As a main player, you may use this power immediately after encounter cards are selected (before any other game effects that apply after card selection). Every ally must play one encounter card facedown from his or her hand (first drawing a new hand if out of encounter cards). Look at the cards played by your allies. You may select one of them to replace your encounter card. You may select one of the opposing allies' cards (without looking at them) to replace your opponent's card. All replaced and unused cards return to their owners' hands and the encounter continues.

If a main player's encounter card selection is forced by a game effect such as Oracle, Magician, or Visionary, this power does not affect his or her allies.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Tactical advisors once employed by many great races, the Usurpers seized power in a bloodless coup. Through mind control techniques and technologies, they subtly wrest control of power from their enemies, causing others to achieve their goals for them. Even allies are gently forced to commit resources on their behalf, for the Usurpers trust no one but themselves.

Wild: As a main player, before allies are invited, you may choose to have the outcome of the encounter be decided based solely on the number of allies' ships per side. Whichever side has the most ships from allies will win the encounter (defense wins ties). Skip the planning and reveal phases.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)

Super: You may look at the cards played by the opposing allies before deciding whether to replace your opponent's card.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Vacuum: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ rulings: Vacuum cannot use its power against its own ships. Super Vacuum can theoretically force Zombie to lose one or more colonies, since lost ships all happen at the same time. Zombie, using his power, would be able to relocate his ships to other colonies, but not back to a colony that he completely lost as part of the action. Unanswered question: The added phrase "up to" does not appear on any other version of Vacuum, and is ambiguous in the context of a MANDATORY effect. Is this intended to change the power such that the player can choose to take along fewer ships than normal (or none), or did FFG just think they were clarifying what should happen in the highly unlikely event that Vacuum's opponents collectively do not have 4 ships for him to target? (All other "up to" effects provide a choice, with the possible exception of Glutton.)
Edited to implement the FAQ ruling that Vacuum cannot affect its own ships (and make its subtitle more consistent with the online edition), and to clarify that Super Vacuum's use of "opposing ships" (which usually applies only in an encounter) does not limit Vacuum to using his Super flare against only those players and ships opposing him during encounters.
[q="Vacuum (Green)"]Takes Others' Ships to Warp

You have the power of Catharsis. Whenever you lose ships to the warp, use this power to take along up to an equal number of other players' ships. You specify which players must lose them, and how many each player must lose. The targeted players decide which colonies the ships are taken from. Ships lost to the Vacuum this way are in addition to any ships normally lost in an encounter.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Suffering from severe necrophobia, the panicky Vacuum clings to others in a desperate attempt to save itself from the warp. Succeeding only in dragging innocent bystanders along, it takes solace in not going to its doom alone.

Wild: For each main player other than you who reveals an attack card, you may retrieve one ship from the warp.
(As Any Player) (Reveal)

Super: You may choose which individual ships are lost to the warp when using your power.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]
:Virus: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: FFG's Virus is somewhat less powerful than Eon's, which multiplied Virus' attack card by the total of his ships plus those of his allies. In a Virus-versus-Anti-Matter encounter, this retooling seems to eliminate the conflict about whether Virus' allies should be multiplied or subtracted (unless Virus has his Super flare, of course). FFG's Wild Virus is considerably weaker than Eon's, which allowed the player to square the total number of ships on his side. FFG's Super Virus restores the "allies also multiply" feature of Eon's base power in place of Eon's Super effect, which was to let Virus use his power for his side's benefit even as an ally.
Design note: It has been suggested that the images for Virus and Zombie were somehow switched before printing. Some players feel that Zombie looks more like a Virus, and vice versa. However, Felicia Cano has confirmed that there was no switch, and these images were the directions indicated by FFG. Nonetheless, for those who are interested, an alien sheet with the opposite image can be had via the following
[q="Virus (Red)"]Multiplies in Attack

You have the power to Multiply. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to multiply the number of ships you have in the encounter by the value of your card instead of adding them together. Your allies' ships are still added to your total as usual.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Able to multiply rapidly in the presence of other life forms, the Virus soon overwhelmed its own planets and now waits for opportunities to proliferate throughout the Universe.

Wild: As a main player, you may multiply the number of ships you have in the encounter by the number of ships allied with you instead of adding them.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: You may multiply the total of all ships on your side by your attack card when using your power, not just your own.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Visionary: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Wild Visionary had to be used before encounter cards are selected. FFG's version is more versatile; for example, if you know your opponent has a particular encounter card in his hand, after cards are selected you could use this flare to find out whether he still holds that card; if not, then you know he just played it as his encounter card. This would be most useful if you have an alien power that is used after cards are selected but before they are revealed (such as Amoeba, Calculator, Citadel, Deuce, Fury, Graviton, Merchant, Mirror, or Sorcerer).
[q="Visionary (Yellow)"]Dictates Encounter Card

You have the power of Perception. As a main player, before encounter cards are selected, you may use this power to specify an encounter card which your opponent must play (for instance: "You will play an attack 06"). If your opponent does not have such a card, he or she may play any encounter card he or she wishes. If your opponent does have the card, however, he or she must play it unless prevented by another player.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

Once an ancient race of wandering fortune tellers, the Visionaries have recently stirred debate among philosophers throughout the Cosmos. Does the mystic sight of the Visionary merely foretell the future, or does it shape it? This intellectual debate between advocates of causationalism and free will has tended to mask the alarming growth of the Visionary empire. As for the Visionaries themselves, they loathe logic and philosophy, preferring a more intuitive approach to the problems of Cosmic domination.

Wild: As a main player, during any phase, you may name a specific card. Each player then secretly shows you that card if he or she has it, or any other card if he or she doesn't have it.
(Main Player Only) (Any Phase)

Super: You may use your power even if you are not a main player. You must specify which main player you are using your power against.
(Not Main Player) (Planning)
[/q]

:Void: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes,. FAQ ruling: Void trumps other effects that affect ships headed to the warp, such as Zombie. Error in FAQ: Void cannot eradicate ships during a failed deal, because the power indicates it only works when Void wins the encounter. Noteworthy interaction: Void is essentially reduced to a non-power by Healer. (The Cosmodex recommends using a house rule with Healer that prevents it from healing ships that are removed from the game.)
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Void could eradicate ships lost due to a failed deal, and allowed reducing a player to the point that he could not win (knocking that player out of the game), but could not eradicate Zombie ships. Eon's Wild Void did not require sending a ship to the warp to use the effect.
Edited to implement the FAQ ruling that Void trumps other powers like Zombie. (Some players dislike the Zombie ruling because it contradicts the historical interpretation of the powers as documented in previous editions' rulebooks and Encounter magazine (e.g. v1n4p16), and because it further degrades Zombie's viability as a competitive alien.)
[q="Void (Red)"]Eradicates Opponents' Ships

You have the power to Eradicate. As a main player, when you win an encounter, use this power to remove the losing side's ships from the game rather than sending them to the warp. This occurs before any other game effects that affect ships headed to the warp. A player cannot be reduced to fewer ships than the number of foreign colonies needed to win the game. Any eradicated ships that would reduce a player below this number are sent to the warp as usual.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

Taught from vortexhood that no other intelligent life existed, the Voids were deeply offended to learn of alien races. They are now on a holy campaign to cleanse the heavens of all gross, material beings.

Wild: Once per encounter, you may send one of your ships not in the encounter to the warp to cancel the effect of any one artifact card. The artifact card is discarded as usual.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may use your power as an ally if your side wins.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Vox: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Flare timing: To use Super Vox, you must already have it in your hand before you start to draw your new hand (otherwise it would have been discarded). After its effect is complete, you add it back to your new hand normally. If you draw the flare as part of the new hand, it is too late to play it to affect that hand, since you must finish the action of drawing before you can start a new game action. House rule: The Cosmodex recommends the two tweaks listed here, to make Vox more competitive as well as more interactive in alliances.
[q="Vox (Green)"]Goes Up to Eleven

You have the power of Volume. As a main player or ally, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to choose one revealed attack card or one played reinforcement card with a value lower than 11. That card goes up to 11.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

The Vox pride themselves on being among the loudest species in the Cosmos. In Vox society, the louder the better. Leadership is often determined by shouting matches to see who can drown out the others for dominance. Minor members of society generally open for more prominent members before such a shouting match, getting the crowd warmed up for the main act to follow.

Wild: As an ally, you may add 11 to your side's total instead of applying the number of ships you have in the encounter.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)

Super: When drawing a new hand of cards, you may draw up to 11 cards.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Voyager: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Gerald Katz (as Gith), revised by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
Retooled Gameplay: Katz's Gith was written prior to FFG's introduction of moveable planets; it treated the player's ships in the warp as a foreign colony that could be encountered, and thus did not have the ability to neutralize opponents' colonies invading its own system. Katz's Wild Gith was completely different: it forced another player as the offense to encounter the warp colony.
[q="Voyager (Yellow)"]Can Have a Colony in the Warp

You have the power to Journey. At the start of your turn, you may use this power to move one of your home planets into the warp if you do not already have one there, or to exchange one of your home planets with one of your planets in the warp. Ships on that planet are both on a colony and in the warp, and may/must leave through all the usual ways for both. Ships sent to the warp do not land on the planet, but ships returning to colonies may go to a colony already on the warp-world.

Your colony on a warp-world counts as both a foreign and home colony, but other players' colonies there count as neither. If this sheet is lost or turned facedown, return the warp-world to your system.
(Offense Only) (Optional) (Start Turn)

Fearless adventurers, the Voyagers traveled to the far reaches of the Cosmos, seeking answers to questions long forgotten. Hungry for new revelations, the Voyagers discovered how to access the unfathomable depths of the warp itself, establishing a presence there. With the entrance to the warp breached, others have followed the Voyagers, but none have had the same success conquering its mysteries.

Wild: You may send one card from your hand (except this flare) to visit the warp, facedown. Return any of these visiting cards to your hand later at any time(s). If you lose this flare, your visiting cards are discarded.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may move a second one of your home planets into the warp.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)
[/q]

:Vulch: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Salvaging cancelers: Vulch/Super Vulch cannot salvage a canceler (such as a Card Zap or the Anti-Matter flare) quickly enough to use it against itself or another card currently involved in a "cancellation war." Flares and artifacts remain on the table until they have had their effect and all cancellation attempts are resolved, so by the time Vulch gets his hands on the canceler, it is too late to use it against anything in that group of related card plays. Playtester clarification: Vulch is allowed to retrieve cards from the reward deck discard pile (there is a "grace period" during which grabber effects can take discarded reward-back cards immediately after they are discarded). Unanswered question: Was Super Vulch intended to salvage just one flare, all flares discarded "around the same time" (such as part of a cardplay war), all flares discarded during the same phase, or all flares discarded during the same encounter? (See recurrent flare bug.) Ambiguity: As with the original Eon Super Vulch, it is not clear whether the player keeps or discards his flares when drawing a new hand. Noteworthy interaction: Wild Vulch, unless zapped, essentially makes Genius a non-power. Reversed edit: See Cosmodex reversals.
Edited to clarify that Super Vulch cannot salvage its own discarded flares, and also that it can keep his flares when drawing a new hand.
[q="Vulch (Green)"]Collects Discarded Artifacts

You have the power to Salvage. Whenever any other player discards an artifact card (whether after playing it or not), use this power to add the artifact to your hand. Any artifact cards you play are discarded as usual and cannot be salvaged.

If you draw a new hand, you keep your old artifacts after revealing them, then draw eight new cards in addition to the artifacts.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Originally developing as a structured, bureaucratic race, only the Vulches who were most able to grasp new opportunities rose to the top. Over millions of years, this inbred scavenging talent flourished and spread throughout the race. Now, Vulches are prepared to use the discarded refuse of others to achieve their goal of universal supremacy.

Wild: As a main player, if you win an encounter (or make a deal), you may force your opponent to give you his or her hand one card at a time. Discard each card until you get one you want. You put that card in your hand and your opponent keeps what's left, if any.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power to salvage (and keep) flares discarded by other players as well as artifacts.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Warhawk: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Infinite loops: When Bleeding Heart declares peace and Warhawk is a main player, card values will infinitely oscillate between negotiate and attack 00. Similarly, Warhawk should probably not join The Cult, because every time he has an encounter with another cult member there will be an infinite loop of the main players' encounter cards oscillating between negotiate and attack 00. While one might think the Timing Conflicts rule would prevent these loops, it actually does not since Warhawk and the other power are never trying to have their effect at exactly the same time.
Edited to clear up the interaction of the three use clauses.
[q="Warhawk (Yellow)"]Never Negotiates

You have the power to Attack. As a main player, if only your opponent reveals a negotiate card, use this power to change it into an attack 00.

As a main player, if only you reveal a negotiate card, use this power to change it into a morph card.

As a main player, if both you and your opponent reveal negotiate cards, use this power to change both negotiates into attack 00 cards.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

The Warhawks rush into combat with no thoughts of surrender. Negotiation is not a concept they understand, and the entire Warhawk society is built upon the notion of fight or die.

Wild: At the start of any encounter, you may discard a negotiate card from your hand and draw two cards from the deck to replace it.
(As Any Player) (Regroup)

Super: If you play a negotiate card and lose the encounter or fail to make a deal, you may collect compensation.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Warpish: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger.
Retooled gameplay: FFG followed Mayfair's lead and made the power even pithier by eliminating an unnecessary statement about compensation. Mayfair's and FFG's Warpishes eliminate the immunity to Wild Schizoid, which was necessary under Eon because of the unusual way Warpish set up his system. Eon's Wild Warpish was completely different: it let the player retrieve two ships at the start of his regroup phase. Eon's Super Warpish was completely different: it prevented other players from retrieving ships from the warp unless they had no colonies whatsoever.
Retheming: Eon's Warpish did not use the same fixed planets as other players, instead setting up "virtual planets" around the warp itself. This required a fair amount of text to implement. Mayfair eliminated all of that, making the power a bit less thematic but far more elegant, and even pithy. (Note that there's nothing stopping the modern Warpish player from physically arranging his planets around FFG's warp to recapture the old theme.)
[q="Warpish (Red)"]Adds Ships in Warp to Total

You have the power of Necromancy. As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to add 1 to your total for each ship (yours or otherwise) in the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Born of the slime and unpalatable scum in the most repulsive bars on dying planets, the Warpish seeks the pall of miserable places. Now it has found comfort in the despairing ambiance of the Cosmic warp.

Wild: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may add 1 to your total for each ship you have in the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may force your opponent to subtract 1 from his or her total for every ship he or she has in the warp.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)
[/q]
:Warrior: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. Errata: Power shows official FAQ errata (in blue), although these errata serve only to move Warrior's token accrual from the reveal to the resolution phase. Error in FAQ #1: Warrior was officially errata'd with the intent of letting him earn tokens when zapped. However, the errata did not actually move the token accrual into the next encounter, which means a zap still shuts it off. Error in FAQ #2: The FAQ says that Warrior "collects experience as though he won an encounter, since repopulating his home planet counts as a successful encounter." Previously the Cosmodex took this as evidence that reclaiming an empty home planet must always be a "win." However, this view has been changed and the Cosmodex now considers this part of the FAQ to be in error: another result of the mistaken idea that there is no difference between "success" and "win" (see "Successful" and "Explicitly declared successful" under encounters.) Extra Encounter: Wild Warrior does not provide for a free hand refresh, so it can be used only if you already have an encounter card in your hand. Collecting tech: The encounter allowed by Wild Warrior cannot be exchanged for a new tech card because it occurs outside the player's turn; you gain a new tech only during your turn by foregoing your second (or later) encounter.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Warrior did not specify an extra experience point (token) in a four-planet game (Eon did not provide a four-planet version).
Edited for readability and wording consistency, and to fulfill the FAQ's wish that Warrior still earn tokens after being zapped.
[q="Warrior (based on FAQ errata) (Green)"]Adds Experience Points

You have the power of Mastery. After an encounter in which you were a main player, add one token to this sheet if you won (or made a deal) or two tokens if you lost (or failed to make a deal). In either case, add one extra token if playing with four planets per player.

As a main player, after you reveal an attack card, use this power to add 1 to your total for each token you have on this sheet. Tokens are not discarded from this sheet after doing so.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

Once considered ferocious but dull-witted by more "enlightened" races, the Warrior clans were bred as fighting stock for the petty squabbles of their lords. Throughout the ages, however, they have learned the value of both defeat and victory. This wisdom gives them mastery over those who would sneer at their potential.

Wild: As the defense, immediately after the encounter is over, you may encounter the offense in his or her home system. After your encounter, play resumes from where it left off.
(Defense Only) (Resolution)

Super: You may use your power as an ally, adding your tokens to your side's total.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Whirligig: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by Tess Boutin, illustrated by Andrew Olson. Timing: If the defense's use of Wild Whirligig causes him to run out of encounter cards, he returns the flare to his hand before drawing a new hand (drawing a new hand its not part of the flare's results). Thus, the flare will be discarded.
[q="Whirligig (Green)"]Mixes Two Hands

You have the power to Swirl. As a main player, during the planning phase, you may use this power to mix the other main player's hand with your own. You and your opponent put your hands facedown on the table, and you mix them together. Then, choose how they will be returned:

- Even Steven: Both players get an equal number of cards. If there is an odd number, you get the extra card.
- As Is: Each player gets the same number of cards they originally had.
- Switcheroo: Each player gets the number of cards the other player originally had.

Once you decide, the other main player takes his or her assigned number of cards at random from the mixed hands. You take the rest.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Planning)

A seemingly wacky species, the Whirligigs are actually quite clever. As they swirl from planet to planet, those they encounter are left befuddled. Less becomes more, high becomes low, and good becomes bad. The uncertainty caused when the Whirligigs come to call lingers long after they have left.

Wild: As a main player, during the planning phase, you may take one card at random from your opponent's hand and mix it with any one card from your own hand. Your opponent chooses which card to take back.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)

Super: When using your power, you may look at your opponent's hand before mixing the cards together.
(Main Player Only) (Planning)
[/q]

:Will: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Ryan Barger. FAQ ruling: Will must encounter an actual colony of ships unless he is encountering a player in that player's home system. Declaring the defense: As written, Will appears to defer the identification of who will be the defense until the Launch phase, which causes problems. For example, when Will draws a wild destiny, can he defer naming the defense and thus prevent Disease from spreading? Or does he announce the target of the wild destiny card during Destiny (as any other player would), let Disease spread accordingly, and then use his power to override that decision during Launch? Because of questions like these, the Cosmodex revises Will to declare who the defense will be while it is still the Destiny phase. Wild and Special destiny: Wild Will (unlike Disease and Shadow) does not specifically state that it works with special or wild destiny cards. The rulebook says, "For purposes of game effects (such as the Shadow's execute ability), specials are treated as though the card showed the player color of the player designated as the defense", and thus Wild Will does work with special destiny. However, there is no such rule for wild destiny, so this flare does not work on a wild. (It is unfortunate that the rulebook used as its example an effect that already specifically says how it works with specials, rather than one such as Wild Will that does not.)
Retooled gameplay: Eon's version did not allow Will to draw destiny at all; Mayfair's rewrite, which FFG follows, lets other powers (like Shadow/Assassin) still do their dirty work, and probably would also nicely accommodate any future destiny enhancements that come along (such as something like Mayfair's Comets). Unfortunately, FFG's decision to place the timing of Will's choice in the Launch phase rather than the (cleaner) Destiny phase causes issues (such as Disease needing to know where he can spread when Will draws a wild destiny) and poses a discontinuity that some future game effects may need to be carefully written around. In addition, FFG's version of Will cannot reclaim an empty home planet after drawing his own color; his power always forces him to choose another player to be the defense. Eon's Wild Will was completely different: it allowed the player to dictate the terms of a deal when other players failed to make one. Because of questions like these, the Cosmodex revises Will to declare who the defense will be while it is still the Destiny phase.
Edited to put Will's declaration of the defense in the Destiny phase where it belongs (for compatibility with existing and future effects), to correctly encounter a "player" instead of an "alien" (a relevant distinction for Reincarnator, Precursor Seed, and multiple-power games), to implement the FAQ ruling that Will must encounter an actual colony of ships unless he is encountering a player in that player's home system, and to clarify that Wild Will works with Dictator but does not work when you draw your own color.
[q="Will (Green)"]Not Controlled by Destiny

You have the power of Choice. As the offense, after destiny is drawn, use this power to declare which other player will be the defense (regardless of the destiny draw). You may encounter any one of that player's colonies or home planets of your choice instead of encountering the player mandated by the drawn destiny card (for example, you could choose to encounter the Virus' ships on the Mind's planet, even if you were actually directed to have an encounter with the Oracle by the destiny card). Any other effects caused by the drawn destiny card still take place as usual.
(Offense Only) (Mandatory) (Destiny)

Arising on a cold and barren asteroid, the Wills gave no thought to legal niceties in their relentless struggle to capture the faint rays of a dying star. Unfairly charged with preying upon the weak, they wish only to find locations in which they may spread their solar membranes, unopposed.

Wild: As the offense, when any other player's color is drawn from the destiny deck, you may have an encounter with that player in any system, not just his or her home system.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)

Super: You may look at any one other player's hand before deciding whom to encounter.
(Offense Only) (Destiny)
[/q]

:Winner: Alien power, Cosmic Alliance, designed by Kevin Wilson, illustrated by Felicia Cano. No double-dipping: Super Winner's multiple-colony scheme works in place of, not in addition to, Winner's base power; if you play the Super flare after winning by a margin between 20 and 29 points, for example, you get two free colonies, not three.
[q="Winner (Yellow)"]Gets Extra Colonies

You have the power to Win More. As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards and you win the encounter by 10 or more, use this power to immediately gain one free foreign colony on a planet of your choice in any system.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Resolution)

From the time their ancestors crawled out of the crystal blue sea on a paradisiacal world under a particularly lucky sun, the Winners have always been incredibly fortunate. Random factors have a bizarre tendency to go their way, and the stars always seem to shine down just a little brighter on them. Now, as they casually sail out into the Cosmos under a favorable solar wind, they know that they will soon take their place as the rulers of the Universe. After all, they're Winners – it's what they do.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may gain a free colony on a planet of your choice in any system. Give this flare to the Winner after use (or discard it, if the Winner isn't playing).
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: When using your power, you may receive a free colony for each set of 10 (rounded down) you win the encounter by.
(Main Player Only) (Resolution)
[/q]
:Worm: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Future Pastimes, revised by Gerald Katz, illustrated by Andrew Olson.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Worm generally limited the repointing of the hyperspace cone to within the system where the encounter was taking place, although in cases where Worm was encountering another player's foreign colony (such as after drawing his own color for destiny), using his power would require him to redirect to one of that player's home colonies (possibly a wording oversight). On the other hand, it allowed defensive Worm to re-point the cone at a planet where the offense already had a colony. FFG's is considerably more flexible and powerful, as it allows more latitude in taking out other players' foreign colonies and also allows Worm to shift his defensive loss to a home planet where he has no ships, as long as the offense does not already have a colony there. Eon's Super Worm was completely different: it simply expanded the power to apply when Worm was challenged on a home planet where he had no colony (which FFG's base power already allows).
Legal encounter: This rare phrase has never been clearly defined, and this in combination with ambiguous writing on Worm (the fault of this author) has given rise to three different interpretations of the power's scope. (1) Literally any planet anywhere, whether the defense has a colony there or not. (2) One of the defense's home planets, home colonies, or foreign colonies ("in any system" allowing the latter). (3) A home planet or home colony, but normally not a foreign colony ("in any system" appearing only for rare circumstances such as the offense happening to be the Will). Interpretation #2 is the design intent for Worm.
Edited to eliminate the ambiguity and communicate the intended interpretation.
[q="Worm (Yellow)"]Re-Aims Hyperspace Gate

Game Setup: You may distribute your ships among your planets however you wish as long as there is at least one ship on each planet.

You have the power to Tunnel. As a main player, after encounter cards are revealed, you may use this power to re-aim the hyperspace gate at any one of the defense's colonies (in any system) or home planets, as long as the offense does not already have a colony there. All offensive and allied ships move along with the gate and the encounter then continues normally.
(Main Player Only) (Optional) (Reveal)

Evolving beneath the rolling sands of the vast deserts of their home worlds, the Worms became adept at mounting surprise attacks and befuddling aggressors. As this fledgling race expands into the Cosmos, no alien knows where they will surface next.

Wild: At the start of your turn, you may move ships from any of your colonies to one planet in your home system that does not have a colony.
(Offense Only) (Start Turn)

Super: You may use your power as an ally.
(Ally Only) (Reveal)
[/q]

:Wormhole: Alien power, Cosmic Storm, designed by Fantasy Flight Games,.
[q="Wormhole (Yellow)"]Commits Ships from Warp

You have the power to Translocate. As the offense or an ally, when committing ships to an encounter, you may use this power to commit your ships from the warp and/or from your colonies.

As a main player, whenever one of your allies commits ships to the encounter, you may use this power to allow that ally to commit those ships from the warp and/or from his or her colonies.

This power does not allow players to exceed the normal limit of four ships in the encounter.
(Main Player or Ally Only) (Optional) (Launch) (Alliance)

The bizarre Wormhole is renowned for its ability to seemingly appear out of nowhere. In fact, the Wormhole has the socially awkward distinction of being the race to startle more unassuming aliens than any other.

Wild: As an ally, after you commit one or more ships to an encounter, you may retrieve up to the same number of your ships from the warp and add them to the encounter. This may result in you having more than four ships in the encounter.
(Ally Only) (Alliance)

Super: As a main player, after alliances are formed, you may release up to four ships from the warp belonging to any one player who has ships in the encounter (even yourself). Add these ships to any ships that player already has involved in the encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]
:Xenophile: Alien power, Cosmic Conflict, designed by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano.
[q="Xenophile (Green)"]Gains Strength from "Tourists"

You have the power of Welcoming. As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards, use this power to add or subtract 3 from your total for each foreign colony in your home system.

You do not lose this power because of having too few home colonies.
(Main Player Only) (Mandatory) (Reveal)

One of the most gregarious, friendly races in the Universe, the Xenophiles have had their homeworld invaded over 20 twenty times by hostile aliens – and never once noticed. Orders given to them by the invaders were cheerfully carried out, until the invaders eventually grew exasperated with the relentlessly cheerful Xenophiles and left of their own accord. The Xenophiles, for their part, are looking forward to the next batch of "tourists" whom they can make feel at home.

Wild: As a main player, after both players reveal attack cards, you may add 1 to your total for every foreign colony in your home system.
(Main Player Only) (Reveal)

Super: After a shared win occurs, you may use this flare. You also win the game, regardless of how many foreign colonies you have.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)
[/q]

:Yin-Yang: Alien power, Cosmic Dominion, designed by George Membreno, history by Jack Reda, illustrated by Felicia Cano. Special component: Yin-Yang has 2 yin-yang tokens.
[q="Yin-Yang (Yellow)"]Allies with Both Sides

You have the power of Balance. When you are invited to join both sides of an encounter, you may use this power to ally with both sides. If you ally with both sides and the defense loses, for each ship you have allied with the offense, the defense may keep one of his or her losing ships on the planet instead of sending it to the warp. If you ally with both sides and the offense loses, for each ship you have allied with the defense, the offense may receive one reward.

When a main player declines to invite you to ally, you may give that player one of your yin-yang tokens. Each main player who has a yin-yang token when his or her opponent loses ships to the warp from the encounter must lose an equal number of ships from his or her colonies. At the end of each encounter, place both yin-yang tokens on this sheet.
(Not Main Player) (Optional) (Alliance)

For as long as intelligent life has existed, the mysterious aliens known only as the Yin-Yangs have garnered influence and control over the positive and the negative, the masculine and the feminine, and the meek and the bold aspects of the Cosmos. Through their efforts in balancing power, they are certain to maintain equilibrium with their enemies.

Wild: When you lose ships to the warp, you may choose another player who, in your opinion, caused you to lose those ships. That player loses the same number of ships as you did.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: When you are allied on both sides of an encounter, you may return your losing ships to any of your colonies instead of sending them to the warp.
(Ally Only) (Resolution)
[/q]

:Zombie: Alien power, base set, designed by Future Pastimes, illustrated by Felicia Cano. FAQ rulings: Zombie does not collect compensation when his ships do not go to the warp. According to the FAQ, Zombie can also use game effects like Wild Kamikaze, Wild Philanthropist, Wild Shadow, Super Tick-Tock, Wild Void, and Wild Locust without losing ships to the warp (which seems to contradict the logic on not getting compensation). When Zombie is supposed to lose ships from colonies, he (or whoever gets to make the choice) must pick up the total number of ships required, and then Zombie re-places them on his colonies. Because of this, it is sometimes possible for Zombie to lose one or more colonies even when he is not actually losing ships. House rule: It seems players are virtually unanimous that Zombie really needs to collect compensation. Weak flare: Wild Zombie may be an unintentional victim of this version's once-per-encounter flare timing.
Retooled gameplay: Eon's Zombie was significantly better; it collected compensation and was not susceptible to Void under Void's previous text (both of these rulings were stated more than once by original designer Jack Kittredge in the pages of Encounter magazine (e.g. v1n4pp14,16). Eon's Wild Zombie was completely different: it allowed the player to return ships from the warp as part of a deal. (FFG's replacement effect is quite weak in that it allows only one ship to be saved per encounter; however, given the overall weakness of the base power (not receiving compensation), it's probably good that the Wild flare isn't giving Zombie's opponents a big benefit.) Eon's Super Zombie was completely different: it let the Zombie player (when involved in an encounter) keep opposing ships that should be lost, flipping them over and using them as his own.
Design note: It has been suggested that the images for Virus and Zombie were somehow switched before printing. Many players seem to feel that Zombie looks more like a Virus, and vice versa. However, Felicia Cano has confirmed that there was no switch, and these images were the directions indicated by FFG. Nonetheless, for those who are interested, an alien sheet with the opposite image can be had via one of the following.
[q="Zombie (Green)"]Never Goes to Warp

You have the power of Immortality. Whenever you should lose ships to the warp, use this power to instead return them to any of your colonies and keep using them.

In addition, you may release any player's ships from the warp (back to any colonies he or she has) as part of a deal.
(As Any Player) (Mandatory) (Start Turn)(Regroup)(Destiny)(Launch)(Alliance)(Planning)(Reveal)(Resolution)

Shadowy forms on a dark and murky world, Zombies prized all sources of energy. They could flourish only by careful recycling of their own kind. Living on decomposed organic matter, they abhor the needless waste of war and have developed effective techniques to make sure their numbers will not be reduced.

Wild: When you lose ships to the warp, you may prevent one of your ships from going to the warp, instead returning it to one of your colonies.
(As Any Player) (Any Phase)

Super: You may announce that each player who allies with you during an encounter may retrieve one ship from the warp and place it in the encounter. This ship does not count toward a player's normal limit of four ships in an encounter.
(Main Player Only) (Alliance)
[/q]